# PDF Chunk 11

We can try it when we have an optimization problem and !nding the optimal value directly is challenging. Ask yourself: 340 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ CATALOG OF TECHNICAL TOPICS View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co "Is it easier to solve the yes/no version of the problem, where we just check if a given value (optimal or not) satis! es the constraint?" Think of it like making a deal: You get to solve an easier problem (checking if a speci! c value satis! es the constraint), but you pay a 'logarithmic tax' in the runtime (to binary searching for the transition point). We've seen the guess-and-check technique before, in the Boundary Thinking chapter with Problem 22.1: Tunnel Depth (pg 232). It is easier to binary search for the ! rst depth where the tunnel doesn't reach than to try to compute the maximum depth directly. BOUNDARY THINKING IN ACTION 8 INTERVIEW REPLAY View Online:bctci.co/binary-search-replay-1 @ 38:55 - end The Question:Return the maximum tunnel depth in a grid. What You'll See:The candidate chose a graph traversal after seeing the grid, and the interviewer and candidate discussed multiple solutions and how to avoid getting "tunnel" vision. Who: Interviewer: Software Engineer at Google Candidate: 7 years exp. GUESS-AND-CHECK PROBLEM SET Try these problems with AI Interviewer: bctci.co/binary-search-problem-set-2 PROBLEM 29.10 W A T E R R E F I L L I N G We have an empty container with a capacity of a gallons of water and another container with a capacity of b gallons. Return how many times you can pour the second container full of water into the ! rst one without over% owing. Assume that a > b. •Constraint: You are not allowed to use the division operation, but you can use still divide by powers of two with the right-shift operator, >>. Recall that x >> 1 is the same as x // 2. ▶Example: a = 18, b = 5 Output: 3. After pouring 5 gallons three times, the first container will be at 15, and 5 more gallons would make it overflow. PROBLEM 29.11 MIN PAGES PER DAY You have upcoming interviews and have selected speci! c chapters from BCtCI to read beforehand. Given an array, page_counts, where each element represents a chapter’s page count, and the number of days, days, until your interview, determine the minimum number of pages you must read daily to ! nish on time. Assume that: •You must read all the pages of a chapter before moving on to another one. 9 8 I (Mike) am the interviewer in this particular interview. This question was the opener for the Boundary Thinking chapter and you can see a candidate make the same mistakes we discuss in that chapter and me walking through the boundary thinking mentality. 9 Hypothetically! It's ! ne to jump around chapters when reading this actual book. CHAPTER 29 ▸ BINARY SEARCH 341 •If you ! nish a chapter on a given day, you practice for the rest of the day and don't start the next chapter until the next day. •len(page_counts) ≤ days. ▶Example: page_counts = [20, 15, 17, 10], days = 14 Output: 5. We can read 5 pages daily and finish all chapters. At a maximum of 5 pages per day, we spend: 4 days on the first chapter. 3 days on the second chapter. 4 days on the third chapter (stopping when we finish early). 2 days on the fourth chapter. In total, we spent 13 days reading 5 pages a day, which is the lowest amount we can read daily and still finish on time. ▶Example: page_counts = [20, 15, 17, 10], days = 5 Output: 17 PROBLEM 29.12 TIDE AERIAL VIEW You are provided a series of aerial-view pictures of the same coastal region, taken a few minutes apart from each other around the time the tide rises. Each picture consists of an nxn binary grid, where 0 represents a part of the region above water, and 1 represents a part below water. • The tide appears from the left side and rises toward the right, so, in each picture, for each row, all the 1's will be before all the 0's. •Once a region is under water, it stays under water. •All pictures are di" erent. Determine which picture shows the most even balance between regions above and below water (i.e., where the number of 1's most closely equals the number of 0's). In the event of a tie, return the earliest picture. Figure 6. Example input for Problem 9. The empty cells are 0's and the cells with water are 1's. ▶Example: The pictures from Figure 6. Output: 2. The pictures at index 2 and 3 are equally far from having 50% water. We break the tie by picking the earlier one, 2. PROBLEM SET SOLUTIONS SOLUTION 29.10 W A T E R R E F I L L I N G Tr y to solve this problem manually for a = 182983 and b = 90. Use a calculator if you want, just do not use the division operation. Done? How did you do it? Try toreverse engineer your process and map it to an algorithmic technique. What you de! nitely didn't do is check sequential multiples of 90 until you reached 182983. Most people make guesses in increasingly larger jumps until they ! nd a guess that is too large. If we double the guess at 342 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ CATALO G OF TECHNICAL TOPICS View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co each time, this is exponential search (pg 338). Then, they start searching between their closest guess below and above the answer, closing in on the number—something we can do with binary search. Despite the problem not having clear triggers for binary search, it's a natural !t for this thought process. 1 def num_refills(a, b): 2 # "Can we pour 'num_pours' times?" 3 def is_before(num_pours): 4