# PDF Chunk 1

BEYOND CRACKING the CODING INTERVIEW Pass Tough CODING Interviews, get noticed, and Negotiate succesfully SNEAK PEEK amazon.com/dp/195570600X 0 INTERVIEW CHECKLIST BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW 1 STUDY PLAN BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW BOOSTERS CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW 189 PROGRAMMING QUESTIONS AND SOLUTIONS CRACKING THE PM CAREER THE SKILLS, FRAMEWORKS, AND PRACTICES TO BECOME A GREAT PRODUCT MANAGER CRACKING THE PM INTERVIEW HOW TO LAND A PRODUCT MANAGER JOB IN TECHNOLOGY CRACKING THE TECH CAREER INSIDER ADVICE ON LANDING A JOB AT GOOGLE, MICROSOFT, APPLE, OR ANY TOP TECH COMPANY BEYOND CRACKING the CODING INTERVIEW GAYLE L. MCDOWELL MIKE MROCZKA ALINE LERNER NIL MAMANO CareerCup, LLC Palo Alto, CA BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW Copyright © 2025 by CareerCup. All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form by any electronic or me- chanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without permission in writing from the author or publisher, except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages in a review. Published by CareerCup, LLC, Palo Alto, CA. Compiled Jun 3, 2025. For more information, or to enquire about bulk or university copies, contact support@careercup.com. Please report bugs or issues at beyondctci.com. 978-1955706001 (ISBN 13) To my favorite coders, Davis and Tobin— Gayle To my dog, my wife, and our readers (and not necessarily in that order)— Mike To my two wonderful kids (or if I have more, then whichever two are the most wonderful)— Aline Als meus pares— Nil WHAT’S INSIDE I. __init__() . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 README . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Hello World. Hello Reader. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Crash & Learn: Our Failed Interviews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 II. Ugly Truths & Hidden Realities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Ch 0. Why Job Searches Suck. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Ch 1. A Brief History of Technical Interviews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Ch 2. What’s Broken About Coding Interviews. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Ch 3. What Recruiters Won’t Tell You . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Ch 4. What Interviewers Won’t Tell You. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Ch 5. Mindset and the Numbers Game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 III. Job Searches, Start to Finish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Ch 6. Resumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Ch 7. Getting in the Door . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 Ch 8. Mechanics of the Interview Process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 Ch 9. Managing Your Job Search. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 IV. Offers & Negotiation. . . . . . . .