# PDF Chunk 5

we felt it was time to take a step back and rethink what a modern interview prep book should look like—one that complements existing resources and patches the gaps between what candidates are doing and what they need to be doing. We realized that a new edition wouldn’t cut it. It would have to be a brand new book, and this book would have to: • Focus on understanding, not memorization. We aim to teach you the computer science fundamentals and the interview skills needed to excel, regardless of your educational background. By building a deep understanding of these concepts, you’ll be prepared to tackle problems you’ve never seen before— something memorization alone can’t achieve. __INIT__!" ▸ HELLO WORLD. HELLO READER. 13 •Cover important non-technical topics. CtCI only brie&y touched on what some call the “squishy” stu$—resumes, negotiation, and managing your job search. This book devotes ~150 pages to these topics because they are now critical to success. We’ll guide you through technical recruiting with practi- cal advice, down to exactly what to say in the situations you’re likely to encounter. • Ground our advice in data. This book draws on a decade of insights from real-world inter views, includ- ing a corpus of over 100,000 interviews conducted on interviewing.io by senior engineers from FAANG+ companies. You’ll get a data-driven perspective on what technical interviews look like at top companies today. Now, to address the angry elephant in the room: technical interviews are &awed, right? Absolutely. We don' t just acknowledge that; we're going to dive into a candid discussion of everything wrong with technical interviews, and what you can do about it. Despite what some have suggested, CtCI didn't invent this format—nor is BCtCI going to end it. As far as we can tell, technical interviewing isn't going anywhere. But we hope to make the process a little less daunting and a lot more transparent—by leveling the playing #eld and giving you access to what was previously insider knowledge. We hope that you’re able to put away your hatred of the format, read this book with an open mind, put in the work, and get your revenge... by nailing your interviews, fearlessly negotiating, and landing the high-paying, challenging, awesome job that you deserve. Before we get on with the real stu$, we have one request for you. Do not read this book—at least not in the traditional sense of left-to-right, top-to-bottom, page-to-page. Rather, we implore you to do this book. Use it. Interact with it. This is so important that we have a literal README on how to use it. We hope you enjoy reading doing this book, inasmuch as one can enjoy a book about interviews and job searches. We really enjoyed writing building it. I CRASH & LEARN: OUR FAILED INTERVIEWS Everyone loves a success story, but failure is often the best teacher. We will share here our most humbling interview experiences—times we bombed, blanked, or were simply unprepared. These stories aren’t just about the mistakes we made; they’re about the lessons we learned and how those failures shaped us. Our hope is that by sharing these moments, you’ll see that even "experts" have stumbled, arguably in career- altering ways. More importantly, you’ll learn that just as these interview failures don't re& ect on our skills as engineers, nor do yours. GAYLE Entering my fourth year of a # ve-year undergrad/master's program, I was fortunate to have three Microsoft internships behind me. Determined to try something new for my # nal internship, I sent countless cold emails and resumes into the void of online applications. Somehow, Google picked mine. I was thrilled. From the bits I'd heard about technical interviewing, questions could be anything from implementing an ArrayList to the heavy-ball brainteaser 1 . Imagine my surprise when, instead, I got a math question: "What is 2^20?" My answer was the always-brilliant "Um, I don't know? Can I use a calculator?" All I could think about was what a stupid question this was and how I de# nitely didn't know the answer. And why should I? Who cares? Just look it up if you need to know it. (Sound familiar?) What I didn't realize then was that—probably—my interviewer wasn't expecting me to just know this. Most likely, she wanted me to start from what I did know, perhaps that 2 10 is about 1000. From there, if I knew my exponent rules, I could solve it: 2 20 = 2 10 * 2 10 is about 1000 * 1000... so approximately 1 million. In her mind, it was a problem-solving question—albeit one that relied on a lot of math 2 . But in my mind, I didn't know the answer, and I was supposed to, and <PANIC>. All I needed to do was focus on what I could solve rather than what I knew. Still a stupid question though 3 . 1 Given a balance (i.e., a scale that only tells you which side is heavier) and eight balls—all the same weight other than one which is slightly heavier—# nd the heavy ball in as few measurements as possible. 2 In general, asking math-heavy questions is a no-no for interviews. However, I'll let her o$ the hook here, a little. I was a computer science major with a math minor. If I didn't know exponent rules, something had gone very wrong. 3 Why is this a bad question? Put aside the "it's not relevant" part. The relevant factor is: is it predictive? Approached the right way, this could be a problem solving question. However, it didn't feel like that to me—and perception matters. Additionally, even if I had approached it as a problem-solving question, there is very little "meat" to the question; what distinguishes between good and bad other than understanding how to break up the exponents? __INIT__!" ▸ CRASH & LEARN: OUR FAILED INTERVIEWS 15 MIKE In my #rst year of college as a CS student, I was the only student to get an opportunity to