# PDF Chunk 6

interview at Google for their internship position 4 —and I was ecstatic about it. The problem? I hadn't taken my data structures and algorithms class yet. My GPA took a colossal hit that semester as I spent way too much time cutting class to watch YouTube lectures on sorting algorithms and NP-hard problems in an attempt to prepare for my interview. The interview day came, and I had two back-to-back meetings with di$erent Googlers. I described the optimal solution for my #rst interview, which I nervously coded in C++ with a hashmap—but then the second inter- viewer stumped me with a binary tree question 5 . After much fumbling, the interviewer walked me through a viable way to solve the problem, which I coded, but I knew I had bombed my chance at a Google internship. A few years later, I passed Google’s full-time interviews twice—declining the #rst o$er for a remote role at Salesforce and accepting the second for a permanent position at Google. ALINE After graduating from MIT, I spent three years cooking professionally. While my culinary detour could #ll a book, I wasn’t good enough at it to make it a career. Out of money, I returned to coding. Coming o$ three years of &ipping pans, chopping food, and drinking nightly, I found myself back in a well-lit o%ce, standing at a whiteboard, asked to reverse a linked list. Not only had I forgotten what these interviews were like (I was expecting to talk about my past projects), but I completely blanked on what a linked list was, much less how to reverse one. And this particular interview was with Sasha Aickin, Red#n’s CTO, back when they were like #ve people. It’s one of the things I still kick myself for, every now and again. To his credit, Sasha patiently explained how linked lists work, and, through a series of hints, got me to change pointer directions. I clumsily erased and redrew arrowheads, but I don’t think I wrote much code. It was too little, too late. I never forgot how shitty failing that interview felt. I also never forgot how gracious Sasha was, in the face of my failure, and how he patiently walked me through the problem by asking leading questions. Both of those experiences helped me come up with the idea for interviewing.io: a place where people could fail privately, without the stigma, and learn from those failures, by pairing with kind, empathetic people who care. NIL Nil insists that he’s never failed an interview. We would like to clarify that it ’s because he’s only done one—and passed. True to his name, Nil has exactly zero failure stories to share. Classic edge case. 4 For the curious, I sent over 100+ cold email messages to former alumni until someone was willing to refer me. Even back then, I was using the techniques we show you in this book. 5 I was asked to compute the maximum sum of any path in the tree, which did not necessarily start at the root but could include it. For a variant of that problem, see Problem 35.1: Aligned Chain (pg 436). UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES Interview Replay: Recordings of actual mock interviews. Snippet: Material that you can copy/paste online, including email templates and code recipes. Resource: Bonus chapters, worksheets, and other material. Problems, Solutions, and AI Interviewer: You can try every problem in the book with the AI Interviewer. Solutions are online in four languages (Python, Java, JavaScript, and C++). Watch for these speech-bubble icons, which mean there is online content. PAR T II UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES I CHAPTER 0 WHY JOB SEARCHES SUCK Job searches suck—especially for engineers, who are, by and large, rational, well-intentioned people who expect the world to function according to some set of predictable rules. Why do job searches suck so much? •Job searches are not deterministic, and neither are interview outcomes. In job searches, e$ ort doesn’t always correlate with results. For technical interviews speci# cally, there’s little predictability in how the same person will perform from interview to interview (pg 26). • No feedback loop. When you apply online and don't get a response, you can't tell if you weren’t a # t or if no one even saw your application. Your insecurities can convince you that not only did a human look, but they quickly sized you up, saw right through you, and lasered in on every single & aw to conclude (correctly, in your mind) that you’re un# t for the job. When you interview, whether you pass or get rejected, you often don’t know why, which makes it di% cult to know how to prepare the next time. • The content of your resume is often eclipsed by the brands in it. If you don’t have brand-name companies or schools, it’s much harder to get noticed. Recruiters are notoriously bad at making value judgments based on resumes 1 . Despite these shortcomings, resumes are still the gold standard, and that means candidates from non-traditional backgrounds enter the game with a signi# cant disadvantage. • To g e t i n t h e d o o r, y o u v e r y l i k e l y h a v e t o k n o w s o m e o n e . Surprisingly, this is even true for candidates who look good on paper; recruiters often ignore online applications because the signal-to-noise ratio is so poor. But it’s especially true if you don’t look good on paper. • Technical interviews are notoriously ! awed and not representative of the actual engineering work you do every day. This one is especially rough, and it bears out in our data. Senior engineers often do worse than juniors in their # rst few interviews because junior engineers have more recently completed an algorithms class or have done extensive interview prep. Senior engineers have been in the trenches, often focusing on