# PDF Chunk 7

building applications; there are very few engineering roles where you’re doing the types of academic problems that you get in interviews day in and day out. These are just a few of the challenges, but the strategies in this book will help you navigate them and achieve success—however you de# ne it. Given all these & aws, you might ask: How did we get here, where our technical interviews feel so divorced from the work and so unpredictable in their outcomes? For that, let’s take a brief look at the history of technical interviewing. 1 See https://www.reddit.com/r/recruitinghell/comments/qhg5jo/this_resume_got_me_an_interview/ CHAPTER 1 I CHAPTER 1 I CHAPTER 1 A BRIEF HISTORY OF TECHNICAL INTERVIEWS A de# nitive work on the history of technical interviewing was surprisingly hard to # nd, but we were able to piece together a narrative by scouring books like How Would You Move Mount Fuji, Programming Interviews Exposed, and the bounty of the internets. The story goes something like this. Technical interviewing has its roots as far back as the 1950s, at Shockley Semiconductor Laboratories in Mountain View, California. William Shockley’s 1 interviewing methodology came out of the need to keep up with the innovative, rapidly moving, Cold War-fueled tech sector, something that traditional hiring approaches taken from established, skills-based assembly line industries simply couldn’t handle. And so, Shockley relied on questions that could gauge analytical ability, intellect, and potential quickly. One canonical question 2 in this category has to do with coins: You have eight identical-looking coins, except one is lighter than the rest. Figure out which one it is with just two weighings on a pan balance. The techniques that Shockley developed were adopted by Microsoft during the 1990s, as the success of the desktop computer, and later, the # rst dot-com boom spurred an explosion in tech hiring. Like Shockley, Microsoft also needed to quickly and scalably assess high volumes of candidates for potential. As soft- ware engineering became increasingly complex, it was no longer possible to have a few centralized expert programmers manage the design and then delegate away the minutiae. Even rank-and-# le developers needed to be able to produce under a variety of rapidly evolving conditions, where just mastery of speci# c skills wasn’t enough. The puzzle format, in particular, was easy to standardize because individual hiring managers didn’t have to come up with their own interview questions, and a company could quickly build up its own interchangeable question repository. Over time, most companies did away with puzzle questions 3 for engineers, and moved to algorithmic questions: these questions seemed more relevant but still assessed problem-solving skills. At many top companies, such as Google, this need for interchangeable parts ultimately carried over to the interview process as well—rather than having individual teams run their own processes and pipelines, 1 We are acutely aware that this is the same William Shockley who became the poster boy for eugenics. He was a pretty awful person. 2 A # rst attempt—if you're an engineer—is to do something akin to binary search: split the coins into two sets of four coins each. Then, take the lighter set, and divide it into two sets of two coins each. Then, split in half again. But that will be three weighings, not two. To reduce a weighing, consider that the balance will also tell us if the sets are equal. We can divide the coins into three sets. 3 https://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/20/business/in-head-hunting-big-data-may-not-be-such-a-big-deal.html 20 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co companies standardized it. This way, in addition to questions, you could e$ectively plug and play the inter- viewers themselves—any interviewer within your org could be quickly trained up and assigned to speak with any candidate, independent of the prospective team. At the same time, companies didn’t always create incentives for engineers to work hard at being good interviewers, and as you’ll see later in this book, we believe that much of the &ak that algorithmic interviews get is due to the interviewers conducting them (and, often, lack of training or proper incentives). So where does this leave us? Technical interviews are, at best, a proxy for the day-to-day tasks that a software engineer actually does, and not all interviewers are good. But, regardless, do technical interviews work? Well, that's complicated and depends a lot on your de#nition of "work." For whom, the candidate or the company? For what type of company? Compared to what? We would argue that interviewing as a whole is &awed, and it's really a matter of picking your poison. However, even the most ardent defenders 4 of these sorts of technical interviews agree that false nega- tives—great engineers who get rejected—are common. FAANGs and other companies who adopt these processes tolerate a high false negative rate, under the rationale that it's better to reject a good candidate than to hire a bad one. The process is optimized to reduce false positives. For you, the candidate, that kind of sucks. But it is what it is, and that's what this book is here for: to help you avoid being one of those false negatives. 4 Let's call out the elephant in the room. Some might assume that, as authors of a coding interview book, we must adamantly believe in the value of coding interviews. Not so. Not only has our intimate look at coding interviews exposed many &aws, but the entire existence of coding interview prep means that coding interviews are, at least, a little bit broken. CHAPTER 2 I CHAPTER 2 I CHAPTER 2 WHAT'S BROKEN ABOUT CODING INTERVIEWS This chapter dives into the systemic & aws of technical interviews, from the prevalence of bad questions and bad interviewers to the randomness of interview outcomes and the growing interview-industrial complex. But it’s not all doom and gloom. Once you understand the challenges and accept that the system is & awed, you’ll be able to operate within it and win (and do so with