# PDF Chunk 8

con# dence and integrity). IT’S NOT THE WORK YOU DO EVERY DAY One of the most persistent critiques of technical interviews is that they feel disconnected from the work you do every day. If interviews were like the work you did every day, we’d expect that senior engineers would outperform juniors in interviews. As it turns out, that’s not the case: frustratingly, the more experienced you are, the worse you perform. We actually have data for this. If you look at performance in their # rst mock interview on interviewing.io, junior engineers signi# cantly outperform senior ones. In the upcoming graph, you can see the average score that candidates got in their # rst mock interview on interviewing.io, broken out by seniority. Not only do junior engineers signi# cantly outperform experienced engineers, 1 but experienced engineers perform the worst out of all the groups. 1 At this point, you’re probably thinking that the bar is di$ erent for more junior engineers. At some companies, it is. At some, it is not. Our interviewers know the experience level of their candidates and adjust their bar accordingly when giving feedback. With that in mind, new grads likely do the best in interviews because they’re fresh o$ a data structures and algorithms course. 22 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co This e$ ect gets less pronounced as people practice more; once everyone has done a bunch of mock inter- views, they all roughly converge, as you can see in the next graph. But, out of the gate, recency with the material gives you a signi# cant advantage. CHAPTER 2 ▸ WHAT'S BROKEN ABOUT CODING INTERVIEWS 23 You might also notice in this graph that it takes about # ve mock interviews, on average, to start passing these interviews (pg 40). BAD QUESTIONS !AND MEMORIZATION OVER UNDERSTANDING" There is so much vitriol targeted toward technical interview questions that rehashing it in detail probably isn’t worth the paper this book is printed on. If you’ve ever read any thread on Hacker News about interviewing, you know the main points: 2 •Questions are too academic and obscure. You’ve probably never had to invert a binary tree at work. • Bad questions. Many questions require a serendipitous “Ah-ha!” moment to solve, which even the best engineers may not be able to guarantee. Some questions aren’t well-formulated or require too much domain-speci# c knowledge. • To o m u c h m e m o r i z a t i o n . With how interviewing works today, it’s rational to memorize a bunch of common questions, which turns the exercise into a test of memorization rather than understanding or ability. We do not disagree with any of these points, and yes, these & aws are real. We’ve already talked about how we got here and why technical interviews are the way they are. It’s easier for huge companies to scale if they can reduce interviewer training time and not have to come up with original questions/use LeetCode questions verbatim. Sadly, smaller companies often “cargo cult” large company practices, not realizing that they hire good candidates despite their processes and not because of them. It's also true that memorizing helps a lot. On interviewing.io, after every interview, both interviewers and interviewees # ll out a feedback form. One of the things we ask interviewees is whether they’ve seen this question before. We don’t share whether they have or not with interviewers, so there’s no reason to lie. Here is a graph of the pass rate for algorithmic interviews as a function of whether candidates have seen the question before. As you can see, familiarity with a question before gives you a serious edge in interviews: you are 33% more likely to pass. We expect that this disparity would be even higher if we had rephrased our feedback form to say something like, “Have you practiced this question before?” 2 We’ve also surveyed our users, as part of some research we did to # gure out what makes someone a good interviewer: https://interviewing.io/blog/best-technical-interviews-common 24 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co The fact that memorizing questions gives you an edge is ironic, given that the whole purpose of modern technical interviewing is to evaluate one’s ability to think like an engineer, rather than come to the table with a bunch of speci#c skills. It’s also one of the things that makes it harder to stomach practicing for interviews. It’s a tough pill to swallow to know that, ultimately, you’re competing with memorizers. In this book, we’ll arm you with the kind of foundational understanding that will make memorization less important (but will be just as e$ective at improving your performance). BAD INTERVIEWERS WHO DON’T WANT TO BE THERE Good interviewers can get good signal from a bad question. Bad interviewers cannot even get good signal from a good question. For a good interviewer, the question is just a tool to guide the discus- sion into interesting areas. For bad interviewers, the question is an absolute to which they must hear the exact answer they have in mind. Jos Visser, Member of Technical Sta$ at OpenAI, and formerly of Google, Facebook, and Amazon Ye s , b a d q u e s t i o n s a r e b a d. However, bad interviewers are, in our minds, the biggest problem with technical interviews. A terrible question, in the hands of a skilled, engaged interviewer, can yield meaningful signal. A great question asked by an unskilled, disconnected interviewer will always be bad. We talked about how large companies adopted modern technical interviewing in part because of the “interchangeable parts” approach to provisioning interviewers. However, human beings are not gears or sprockets—each comes with their own unique hangups and proclivities. It’s naive to think that you