# PDF Chunk 9

can swap one interviewer for another and achieve the same result. In our experience hiring professional mock interviewers, we saw very quickly that whether some- one likes to conduct interviews is bimodal: either they love it or they hate it, with not much in between. The people who like interviewing tend to enjoy teaching. They tend to have higher-than-average empathy, they remember a time when they were on the other side of the table, and they want to make that experi- ence less painful for their candidates. They also tend to approach interviews with a certain curiosity. They are curious about novel ways to solve the problem, about new rabbit holes their candidates will inevitably go down, and about the candidates themselves. The people who hate interviewing treat it as a disruption—a necessary evil between shipping features. They do the bare minimum, and it shows. Over the years, we've listened to a lot of interviews. You can immediately identify when an interviewer is checked out. You’ll hear them typing. You’ll hear them go silent for a while. They’ll often need to ask the candidate to repeat themselves. You certainly won’t hear them collaborating with their candidate or gently guiding them away from a perilous rabbit hole. Most of us have been on the receiving end of an interviewer’s callous indi$erence and know what it feels like. CHAPTER 2 ▸ WHAT'S BROKEN ABOUT CODING INTERVIEWS 25 Bad interviewers are common across companies, even top-tier ones, 3 and there is an added complication: companies don’t usually track who their best interviewers are, 4 nor do they reward them. Sadly, it’s often the opposite—bad interviewers get rewarded because they focus on writing code instead of conducting interviews. In other words, curmudgeons who alienate their recruiting team (and get scheduled less often as a result) get rewarded. Engineers who end up being less present in their interviews because their mind is elsewhere, still churning through the code they were writing when they got interrupted, get rewarded. In the rare instances where we’ve seen companies really care about interviewer quality, it’s because an eng leader there has taken it upon themselves, as a labor of love. Why does it matter if an interviewer is bad, outside of it being a poor experience for candidates? In this graph, you can see the average interview pass rates on interviewing.io, broken out by interviewer quality. 5 Interviewer quality matters because the purpose of a technical interview is not to see if you can get the perfect answer. You’re not just solving a coding problem online by yourself. As such: •Bad interviewers miss out on critical two-way interactions with the candidate. You’re meant to discuss approaches with your interviewer and ask questions, all in the service of determining if you’re the kind of person who can pick up new skills in a rapidly changing landscape and work well with other smart people. When your interviewer is not holding up their end, it’s much harder for you to hold up yours, and it turns into a contest of who’s memorized the most questions. •Bad interviewers are incentivized to be unnecessarily harsh. Better to say no to a good candidate than risk hiring a bad one, right? 3 Some people assume that top-tier companies invest more into interviewer training than others. In our experience, that isn’t true. We won’t throw speci# c companies under the bus in this book, but if you read interviewing.io’s guide to FAANG interview processes (https://interviewing.io/guides/hiring-process), you’ll see how much or how little some of them invest in interviewer training. 4 https://interviewing.io/blog/best-technical-interviews-common 5 We determine quality as a function of how highly rated interviewers are by their candidates with respect to question quality, hint quality, and how excited the candidate would be to work with that person. It’s a “candidate experience” score, in other words. Candidates submit these ratings before they know how they did. This graph is also not about interviewer leniency—for what it’s worth, the best-calibrated interviewers tend to be the best-rated, and those who are too lenient tend to be among the worst. 26 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co •Bad interviewers will judge too much on super# cial grounds, which is especially unfair to candidates who come from a non-traditional background or lack some little bit of institutional knowledge. For all their perceived objectivity (and certainly they’re more objective than ones where you talk about your experience), coding interviews are a complex interaction between two humans. When one of the parties isn’t truly present, the candidate pipeline su$ ers, and you end up with fewer candidates to choose from and, ultimately, worse hires. N O N 'D E T E R M I N I S T I C O U T C O M E S Anyone who’s done multiple technical interviews has probably felt in their gut that outcomes are somewhat arbitrary. So much depends on serendipity and, well, clicking! Did you click with your interviewer? Did some- thing click in your head at the right time when trying to solve the problem? If you’ve felt like this, you’re not alone, and we have the data to prove it. On interviewing.io, after every interview, you get a technical score from your interviewer, on a scale of 1 to 4. The same candidate can do multiple interviews, each of which is with a di$ erent interviewer and/or di$ erent company, and this opens the door for some pretty interesting and somewhat controlled comparative analysis. With that in mind, we looked at how the same person performed from interview to interview. We analyzed inter viewing.io’s data to understand how individuals per formed across multiple inter- views (for this analysis, we included people who did between 3 and 20 interviews). Each circle or diamond represents people with that speci# c average score and standard deviation across their interviews. The y-axis is the standard deviation of performance; a higher