# PDF Chunk 11

recruiters try to position themselves as your advocate, remember this: recruiters are not your friend, and they don’t work for you. I (Aline) used to be a recruiter. I ran my own third-party agency, and I also worked in-house before starting interviewing.io. That means I’ve had to struggle with the tangled incentive structure 1 that comes with being a recruiter. There’s always tension; recruiters are, by and large, good human beings who genuinely want to help their candidates, but they also have an employer they’re beholden to, as well as a comp/bonus structure that rewards certain behaviors, some of which run counter to candidates’ best interests. There’s some distinction between in-house recruiters and third-party recruiters (recruiters who work for an agency that does placement, rather than a speci# c company that’s hiring engineers). T H I R D 'P A R T Y R E C R U I T E R S Working with third-party recruiters (also known as agency recruiters) is, at best, mixed. The most important thing to realize about them is that you are not the customer. The employer is. As such, even when they're paid a commission based on your salary, their incentives are, at best, sometimes aligned with yours. Ultimately, a recruiter's incentive is to get the deal done, not to get you the best possible deal. Here’s why. A recruiter, depending on market conditions, gets anywhere from 8% - 25% of a candidate’s base salary when they make a placement. However, that cut is going to the recruiting agency as a whole rather than to the individual recruiter; you will almost always end up working with large agencies rather than a single person. Let's say that you get an o$ er. You talk to your third-party recruiter and tell them that you would like more money. The recruiter may go to the hiring manager and try to advocate for you, but they're not going to 1 https://blog.alinelerner.com/if-youre-an-engineer-who-wants-to-start-a-recruiting-business-read-this-# rst/ W h a t R e c r u i t e r s W o n ’ t T e l l Y o u 30 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co push very hard because the incremental di$erence in their cut is going to be pretty small 2 , and to them the thing that matters is making the hire. After all, they're evaluated on the number of hires they make, #rst and foremost, independent of compensation. Third-party recruiters are incentivized to get the deal done, not to risk the deal by negotiating hard for you. This means: •If they have multiple clients potentially matching the same company, and they know you're less likely to take their o$er, they'll #ght for the other candidates more than you. • They may expose information to the company that reveals whether you'll demand a high salary. Remem- ber: they're paid by the company, not you. If the company likes them, that's good for them. • They may encourage you to take a lower salary. Sure, they get a slightly higher commission if you negotiate a higher salary, but they get no commission until the deal is done. •They may encourage an employer to lowball you, if they think you’ll take it. 3 So, when you work with third-party recruiters: •Do not tell them anything about your job search. •Do not share your compensation history/expectations. • Always deal directly with the companies they introduce you to, once you establish a point of contact there. • Assume that anything you tell your recruiter is going to get back to every company you’re working with. IN'HOUSE RECRUITERS Some in-house recruiters get a bonus for hires, but this bonus is rarely tied to your compensation. In fact, in some cases, they may get a bigger bonus if they’re able to negotiate you down. At big companies, in particular, in-house recruiters follow a playbook, and are evaluated accordingly. They’re trained to make o$ers within speci#c bands, and they’re trained to mobilize such that they don’t lose candi- dates to other big companies; if you wave a Facebook countero$er in front of Google, they will act. If you tell them you’re interviewing at a startup, they will not, because they know that startups don’t pay as much. Because of this playbook 4 —and because they are working for the employer—their incentives do not align with yours. They’re incentivized, #rst and foremost, to follow the rules their head of department sets for them. This is true for how they evaluate candidates, who they let through, and how they read resumes. And it’s de#nitely true for how they negotiate. Generally speaking, recruiters want to help, and many are rooting for their candidates. But they’re also operating inside a box, and that box isn’t set up to put your interests #rst. 2 Understanding that, let's do the math anyway. Let’s say your o$er has a base salary of $150k. Say that your recruiter goes to bat for you and tries to get you up to $165k. Before, the agency would have gotten paid $15k. Now the agency gets paid $16.5k. That incremental $1.5k isn’t worth risking a deal over (even a few thousand dollars would not justify jeopardizing the deal). On top of that, the individual recruiter is only going to maybe get a few hundred dollars total from that increase. 3 Why would a recruiter recommend that an employer not pay you more? It seems counterintuitive, but remember that the employer is their customer, not you. A savvy business person will often take a short-term hit in the service of building an enduring relationship with their customer. Telling an employer that they don’t need to pay a candidate more (even though paying the candidate more would get the recruiter marginally more money) builds trust and makes it more likely that that employer will keep coming back to them for future searches. Employers often work with several agencies at