# PDF Chunk 12

once and cycle between agencies, so anything agencies can do to retain employers is a win. 4 For more insight, watch this video on how recruiting leaders think about looking at resumes, debrie#ng interviews, and extending o$ers. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHSufqvgUqY CHAPTER 3 ▸ WHAT RECRUITERS WON'T TELL YOU 31 A NOTE ABOUT IN!HOUSE RECRUITER TENURES Many recruiters at FAANG companies are contractors. The longer a contractor works, the more their role may resemble that of a full-time employee. To avoid legal risks, companies often limit contract durations to around 6 months. While this practice is most common in California due to its strict labor laws, similar limitations are applied in other states, though the typical contract length may vary. Why do recruiter tenures matter to you? • Never assume that the recruiter you're talking to now will still be there in a few months, when you're ready to interview. • Build good rapport with your recruiter. Odds are good that, even if you don't pursue their current company, you might be interested in their future company. • Don't lie about other o$ers—it’s not super likely your recruiter is checking whether you have the o$ers you say you do, but chances are, because recruiters have short tenures and work at lots of companies, your recruiter knows someone there. We’ve seen it happen. We’ll talk a lot more about how to work well with recruiters in future chapters, and now you’ll understand why we give the advice that we do. RECRUITERS WILL TRY TO CALL/TEXT. USE EMAIL INSTEAD. Recruiters are notorious for calling and texting instead of using email. Why? The generous interpretation is that recruiters generally want to move things along quickly. If they can get you to respond quickly, through a synchronous medium like phone or text, then they can likely move you through the process faster as well. There is one other, less generous interpretation—phone and text give recruiters the upper hand. Even the worst recruiters, if they have any work experience at all, quickly become seasoned negotiators. Even inexperienced recruiters have an edge because they are following a script and playbook. They’ve been told what to say in a variety of situations, and they interact with candidates multiple times a day, over years. You, on the other hand, do one job search every few years. Email lets you level the playing #eld. You can craft every word, and #gure out what to say and how much to reveal. Over email, you can play it cool, and you can take the time to get advice from friends or experts. When a recruiter calls you on the phone, they get your impromptu responses. They can see if you're excited about the money, and possibly get you to answer questions that you might not have otherwise answered (e.g., your salary expectations). The phone will keep you o$ balance. While texting allows you to think longer about your response, its casual nature lulls you into a false sense of security. Moreover, the fact that texts interrupt you from something else puts you at a disadvantage—when you get interrupted, your instinct is to quickly respond to make the interruption go away. But knee-jerk responses are rarely the right ones, and you end up giving away information you shouldn’t have. We encourage you to stick to email as much as possible. You will have to get on the phone eventually, of course, likely when they are ready to extend an o$er, but you never have to text. CHAPTER 4 I CHAPTER 4 I CHAPTER 4 II WHAT INTERVIEWERS WON'T TELL YOU Material for this chapter at bctci.co/interviewer-secrets Much of interviewing advice takes an idealistic stance: interviewers are fundamentally well-intentioned rational actors who want to run a fair process, and any & aws in the process itself are circumstantial or occur because of very rare bad actors. That’s not strictly true. As we previously discussed (pg 24), most employers don’t reward strong interview- ing skills, so interviewers have little motivation to improve. Here are some additional interviewing tropes, which may or may not be true. We’ll discuss them all and address them with data. Can you guess which ones are true? • It’s not about whether you get the right answer. Rather it’s about demonstrating your thought process. •Interviewers decide early on if you’ve passed the interview. • If you’re a great communicator and build rapport with your interviewer, you can pass the interview, even if your technical skills are wobbly. IS IT REALLY ABOUT DEMONSTRATING YOUR THOUGHT PROCESS, OR DO YOU NEED TO GET TO AN OPTIMAL SOLUTION? On interviewing.io, candidates who clearly and correctly explained their approach but failed to reach an acceptable working solution received a "thumbs up" only 32% of the time, compared to the platform's overall average of 51%. This means that failing to produce a working solution reduces your chances of passing the interview by 37%. 1 How Interview Replays Work and How to Use Them Interview replays come from mock interviews on interviewing.io. Replays are shared with the permission of both participants. Each replay includes the interviewer’s feedback. You can watch just the relevant snippet, but we include the entire interview. We strongly recommend pausing your reading and watching these replays. Hearing real people interview lets you learn from their mistakes—so that you aren’t doomed to repeat them. Where we know it (and where enough time has elapsed since they did mock interviews), we’ll share the candidate’s outcome. 1 To be clear, if you’ve gotten to the optimal solution and have mostly working code (maybe some small syntax errors or an o$ by one error), we believe most interviewers would still give a Hire rating. But if it’s not working, it has to be very close. W h a t Interviewers Won’t Tell You CHAPTER 4 ▸ WHAT INTERVIEWERS WON'T TELL YOU 33 NOT GETTING A WORKING SOLUTION, DESPITE DESCRIBING IT SUCCESSFULLY INTERVIEW REPLAY View Online:bctci.co/interviewers-replay-1 @ 45:50 - end The Question:Given an array of integers, are there elements a,