# PDF Chunk 13

b, c such that a + b + c = 0? Find all unique triplets which give the sum of zero. What You'll See:Although the candidate explained the solution well, their code had bugs. The interviewer o$ ered some suggestions on how to improve coding speed and discussed the importance of writing compilable code. Who: Interviewer: Sta$ Software Engineer at Lyft Candidate: 4 years of experience So, why do many interviewers insist on saying that it’s about your thought process rather than the end result? That's complicated, but there are a few reasons: 1. It feels good to say. Interviewers want to believe that they're grading on something deeper and more qualitative than getting the right answers to really hard questions. 2. It is true, in a sense; interviewers prioritize your solving ability, not the answer itself. If you just spit out the right answer because you already know it, this won't be impressive to a good interviewer and could even lead you to getting eliminated for "cheating." 3. It used to be even more true. As standards have increased, there has been a bit less forgiveness for a candidate who made good progress but didn't get to the best solution. The reality is that interviewers are looking for strong problem solvers, and—for a good interviewer—it is about the process, not the solution. However, it's often hard to convince them that you're a strong problem solver if you can't reach the optimal solution. Either way, this trope stresses the importance of practice—the more you practice, the faster you’ll get, and the more likely you get to an acceptable solution. FIRST IMPRESSIONS AREN'T PREDICTIVE. EARLY PERFORMANCE IS. You might have heard that the interviewers decide in the # rst few minutes whether you've passed the interview; we've certainly heard that plenty. But even supposing that's true, is it true for technical interviews? Given that technical interviews are focused on problem solving, it would be troubling if interviewers did in fact make such snap judgments before the problem solving had even happened. At interviewing.io, we looked into this claim by analyzing sentiment—interviewers can make a comment during the interview (we call these “annotations”) with an associated sentiment (positive, neutral, or negative), which the candidate will see afterwards. 34 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co Those who believe that the # rst impression is make-or-break might be reassured by this: the interviewer's # rst annotation is aligned with the outcome just 56% of the time—barely better than a coin & ip. The # rst annotation occurs at an average of 13 minutes into the interview, which means the chit-chat is done and we've kicked o$ the problem solving portion. We can't speak for what happens in non-eng interviews, but at least for eng interviews: no, interviewers do not decide in the # rst few minutes. Whew! However, your interviewer’s impression of you by the 18-minute mark is predictive. Figure 1. This graph is based on 7,883 interviews with annotations from the interviewing.io corpus. You can see when the # rst annotation that was predictive of the interview outcome happened. Most happen in the # rst 18 minutes. Moreover, the average sentiment gets worse over time for both successful and unsuccessful candidates, with the sharpest decline occurring in the # rst 15 minutes. CHAPTER 4 ▸ WHAT INTERVIEWERS WON'T TELL YOU 35 Figure 2. This graph is based on 7,883 inter views with annotations from the inter viewing.io corpus. You could interpret these # ndings cynically—all candidates do badly, and interviewers get stuck in precon- ceived (or at least early) notions. But as authors who have—collectively—spoken with thousands of candi- dates and interviewers, we see this in a more positive light. Good interviewers 2 adjust their guidance based on your performance: when you do well, they give you less assistance; when you struggle, they give you more. It's like a live version of computer adaptive testing. This means that while you might do well in the # rst 10 minutes (mostly chit-chat and explaining the problem), good interviewers will adjust so that you struggle just enough. Perhaps seeing that struggle is why sentiment generally gets more negative over time; a good interviewer is purposefully putting you into situations that challenge you, thus creating more room for negative sentiment 3 . But that’s part of the interview process. # This means, for you, don't panic when things get more challenging. Embracethe struggle. Struggling doesn't mean that you're doing poorly; it can just mean that your interviewer is doing their job. They've given a problem of appropriate di% culty and adjusted their guidance to suit your abilities. We also believe, optimistically, that it’s a good thing early-formed opinions are predictive. At the 18 minute mark, we're about 10 minutes into the problem solving portion, by which point our interviewer has seen some of our skills. If the # rst 10 minutes of problem solving were not predictive of the next 30 minutes, that would be a further indictment of the interview process. After all, it's not like we're magically becoming better or worse problem solvers, so our performance at the beginning should typically be predictive of the rest. It's good that we see consistency. It means that our interviewers, if they’re good, are actually looking at our problem solving process, not quantitative metrics like "number of minutes to solution" or "did you get it perfect right away", nor dinging us because we have some tiny bug. # This means, again, there's no reason to panic at little mistakes; these aren't making interviewers & ip & op. Not all interviewers are good interviewers (unfortunately), but still—interviewers are generally looking at your performance as a process. 2 Fortunately, this data set is limited to interviewers who were rated well by their candidates. Our interpretations of the data do not hold for bad interviewers. As we discussed earlier (pg 24), there are many