# PDF Chunk 14

bad interviewers who aren’t engaged and check out after the # rst few minutes. 3 However, this doesn't mean that you are truly doing worse. A good interviewer will also be looking at signal (pg 180), which means that they are taking into account the complexity of the problem. 36 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co COMMUNICATION SKILLS ARE NICE, BUT TECHNICAL SKILLS ARE NICER Communication in technical interviews boils down to two aspects: rapport-building at the start (about yourself, your projects, etc) and clear communication throughout the interview. RAPPORT!BUILDING AT THE START Look, this isn’t the kind of thing you usually say in an interview prep book, but the chit-chat in the #rst few minutes does not matter... much. Data shows positive communication in the #rst #ve minutes increases pass rates by 6 percentage points for underperforming candidates, compared to a 25-point boost from strong technical performance. Be enthusiastic and personable, but don’t stress this unless small talk is a challenge for you. The technical stu$ really does matter more. COMMUNICATION THROUGHOUT THE INTERVIEW Although many candidates believe in coding as soon as possible, the data shows the opposite: successful candidates actually code slightly later (about two minutes later 4 in a one-hour interview). This di$erence is small, but extra surprising given that many unsuccessful candidates will be quite delayed in coding because they lack a working approach. So why would coding later be linked to better outcomes? Communication, essentially. Candidates who explain their approach do better in interviews, but communication takes time. Thinking out loud is essential in technical interviews, but beyond a baseline, communication may not signi#- cantly impact outcomes—at least for roles below Sta$. On interviewing.io, candidates are rated on technical skills, problem-solving ability, and communication skills (all on a 1 - 4 scale), alongside a pass/fail score. Our analysis found that once a candidate scores 2 / 4 in communication, additional improvements yield diminishing returns. In contrast, boosting technical or problem-solving scores by 1 or 2 points can increase the odds of passing by 1.5X to 2.4X, emphasizing the greater importance of these skills. As roles become more senior though, communication and behavioral skills play an increasingly critical role in interview outcomes. At the Sta$ level and beyond, our anecdotal experience—supported by feedback from interviewers—shows that the evaluation criteria shift signi#cantly to emphasize these skills. All that said, we can't fully tease apart technical ability and communication skills; when a candidate can't communicate their solution, interviewers are also less likely to be impressed by their approach—and they are less able to give you hints to help you along. Where does this leave you? •Don’t worry about practicing speci#cally for the #rst 5 minutes of the interview. You can prepare for it a little, but don't stress about it. •Get used to thinking out loud. •Spend the bulk of your time getting better at solving problems. Fortunately, practicing thinking out loud doesn't come at the cost of practicing solving problems. You can quite literally do them at the same time. 4 Candidates with successful interviews #rst run code 27% of the way through the interview, whereas candidates with unsuccessful interviews #rst run code 23.9% of the way into the interview. This di$erence is small, but nonetheless statistically signi#cant. https://interviewing.io/blog/we-analyzed-thousands-of-technical-interviews-on-everything- from-language-to-code-style-here-s-what-we-found#user-content-fnref-3 CHAPTER 5 I CHAPTER 5 I CHAPTER 5 MINDSET AND THE NUMBERS GAME No matter how good an engineer you are, if you get too much in your head during interviews, you’ll fail. We’ve seen countless candidates self-sabotage because they jumped into the interview prep material before they accepted some fundamental truths about the journey. This chapter is about how to approach these interviews, and we encourage you to take it seriously. It’s not woo-woo nonsense. It’s our way of making sure you can apply your full potential for the rest of the book. With that in mind, here are the things you need to internalize and truly believe before you begin your studies. TECHNICAL INTERVIEWING IS A NUMBERS GAME Technical interviews are a numbers game, but many engineers underestimate just how much. It takes doing many interviews, and even more importantly, access to a peer group going through the same thing, to really internalize it. Here, we’ll try to short-circuit all of that and convince you that failing an interview doesn’t re& ect on your engineering skills or potential; it’s often the byproduct of a broken system. Remember the graph (pg 26) where we showed that most people’s technical interview performance is all over the place? Here it is again (Figure 1). Only 25% of people performed consistently, and about two thirds of people who got at least one 4 also got at least one 1 or 2. Due to this inconsistency, even great engineers routinely fail interviews. This is a particularly big issue in tech- nical phone screens, where interviewers must decide if someone gets to onsite based on just one data point. Many candidates go into the process assuming it’s repeatable, like a standardized test—a reasonable but & awed assumption. The truth is, unless you’ve been through the wringer, and unless you have people around you who have also been through the wringer, you’re unlikely to realize just how unpredictable and variable the process can be. For me (Aline), this became clear when I was a student at MIT. Attending a top-tier computer science program o$ ered a number of advantages, but one of the most important (and least obvious) was access to a peer group that was going through the same things. Having this group around me meant that we could all practice with each other, share our successes and failures, and have multiple shots on goal at top companies. Everyone was interviewing everywhere, and we quickly learned that bombing a Microsoft interview did not mean that you weren’t meant to be an engineer. It just meant that you needed to work some more problems, do