# PDF Chunk 15

some more mock interviews, and try again at Google. 38 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co Figure 1. Standard deviation vs. mean interview performance (33,052 interviews; 7,161 interview- ees). We analyzed interviewing.io’s data to understand how individuals performed across multiple interviews (for this analysis, we included people who did between 3 and 20 interviews). Each circle or diamond represents people who had that speci# c average score and standard deviation across their interviews. One of the most critical things to internalize is that if you fail an interview, that’s all it is. It is not a well-reasoned indictment of your potential as an engineer. Keep practicing and try again. Unfortunately, dusting yourself o$ and trying again is harder for some groups than for others. PERSEVERANCE AFTER FAILURE IS HARDER FOR ENGINEERS FROM NON'TRADITIONAL BACKGROUNDS Many years ago, we noticed that on interviewing.io, women were performing signi# cantly worse in technical interviews than men. This disparity still exists today. But before you jump to conclusions, the reason is not that women are actually technically weaker. Let us explain. Figure 2. Gender di$ erences in interview passthrough rate. CHAPTER 5 ▸ MINDSET AND THE NUMBERS GAME 39 When we # rst noticed this disparity, we wondered if it was due to bias against women. So, we ran an experi- ment 1 using a real-time voice modulator that could change the pitch of the user's voice (making women sound like men, and vice versa). Contrary to what we expected, masking gender had no e! ect on interview performance. Perhaps the women were less senior? Doing di$ erent work? Nope. Neither of those factors seemed to di$ er meaningfully between groups. What was di$ erent then? Women left interviewing.io roughly seven times as often as men after they do badly in an interview. And the numbers for two bad interviews aren’t much better. 2 Figure 3. Attrition after poor interview performance. When you correct for attrition, the di$ erence between men and women goes away entirely. 3 Figure 4. Average passthrough rate by gender when correcting for people who drop out after two failures. 1 We split our users into three groups: unmodulated (the control group), modulated without pitch change (another control; we needed it because modulated voices sound somewhat processed, and the last thing we wanted was for interviewers to guess the gender of their interviewees because anyone who sounded processed and male must actually be a woman and vice versa), and modulated with pitch change. This last one was the treatment group. https:// interviewing.io/blog/voice-modulation-gender-technical-interviews 2 The di$ erences between men and women are extremely statistically signi# cant with P < 0.00001. 3 We have not studied this e$ ect in race or in socioeconomic status, but we’d expect that you’d see a disparity in persever- ance between groups, with engineers from non-traditional backgrounds being more likely to quit. 40 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ UGLY TRUTHS & HIDDEN REALITIES View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co We are calling this out because we want it to change your behavior: everyone fails these interviews, regardless of background. If you're a woman, and very likely if you’re from a non- traditional background, know that failure isn't a career end. Accept the system's &aws and learn to navigate them. This means learning as much as you can, practicing as much as you can, then learning some more, and then practicing some more. End-to-end, the practice journey may take anywhere from two to six months, depending on where you start and your previous exposure to algorithms and data structures. But, no matter who you are, you will need to practice, and you will fail some interviews. This is an axiom of our book. It might take two failures before things turn around. It might take #fteen. But we implore you to exert yourself and keep going. If you approach technical interviewing from a place of curiosity, we promise that you’ll get through it and #nd success at the end... which brings us to our #nal point. PRACTICE IS REALLY IMPORTANT CRITICAL It's all well and good to talk about who is doing well in mock interviews, but at the end of the day, your goal is to do well in real interviews. To understand what is driving strong performance in real interviews, we surveyed interviewing.io users about how well they did in real interviews at Google, Meta, and Amazon and compared their performance at these companies against their past total interview count (both mock and real), gender, whether they had a computer science degree, and how they learned to code. The factor that stood out most was how many technical interviews an engineer had done in the past. Across all users, people who had completed #ve or more interviews had higher rates of passing a phone interview than those who had done fewer. The number of interviews mattered more than people’s starting technical pro#ciency, and it also mattered more than gender and pedigree (those factors didn’t actually matter). 4 PROBABILITY OF PASSING A TECHNICAL PHONE SCREEN 1 " 4 INTERVIEWS BEFOREHAND 5+ INTERVIEWS BEFOREHAND Amazon65%81% Meta40%71% Google51%80% Figure 5. The probability of passing phone screens at Amazon, Google, and Meta, as a function of how many technical interviews candidates had done previously, based on data from interviewing. io users. Practice helps, and the “tipping point” is #ve interviews. But what, speci#cally, is it about practice that is so impactful? According to survey results, it's about direct feedback (when candidates were fortunate enough to get it; most often it was in mock interviews, rarely in real ones). Engineers typically can’t gauge how they did in interviews, 5 so they probably can’t gauge why they passed or failed—although, unfortunately, they often think they can. As a result, they are bound to over-index on the wrong things and neglect the ones that truly matter. We’ll talk more about