# PDF Chunk 16

the limited utility of using real interviews for practice in “What about using companies for practice?” on page 79. Mock interviews o$er direct, honest feedback from other people so that you know how you're perceived and what to improve. 4 https://interviewing.io/blog/how-know-ready-interview-faang 5 https://interviewing.io/blog/people-cant-gauge-their-own-interview-performance-and-that-makes-them-harder- to-hire CHAPTER 5 ▸ MINDSET AND THE NUMBERS GAME 41 Finally, practicing can help resolve some of your (valid 6 ) frustrations about technical interviewing. Working for a FAANG+ means having to do algorithmic interviews, and if you're resentful of the format, you will not learn as quickly or e$ectively. Making peace with the format—whether that's seeing its bene#ts or just putting aside your feelings—will make your preparation much more e$ective (and probably much less unpleasant). As one engineer we know put it: [Practicing] unambiguously changed the game for me. I went from hating interviews and ranting about whiteboarding to "If you go to med school you have to take the MCAT." THE TWO FUNDAMENTAL METRICS The two most important metrics to getting a job boil down to: 1. How many interviews do you have in your pipeline? 2. How good are you at passing technical interviews? Let's suppose you pass 70% of your interviews. Not bad, right? Most interviewers would like to hire you. But if a company does one phone screen plus four onsite interviews, this means that you only have a 17% chance 7 of getting an o$er from this company. Not so good—especially if you're trying to hold out for one speci"c company. If you can raise this from a 70% to a 90% pass rate, this means you'll get most o$ers you try for. If that seems overwhelming, you can instead try for more interviews. With a 17% o$er rate, you can inter view with four companies and have a greater than 50% chance of at least one o$er. In reality, you'll want to optimize both of these metrics. A pass-rate of 80% will give you an o$er rate of 33%—and require just two companies to probably get an o$er. Your odds of getting a better o$er at a more desirable company only go up as you interview with more companies. To g e t a n o $e r t h a t yo u ' re e xc i t e d a b o u t , yo u ' l l w a n t t o fo c u s o n b o t h g e t t i n g m o re i n t e r v i e w s and doing better in those interviews. The goal of this book is to increase both of these metrics. 6 We’ve already talked about how, in our view, bad, unmotivated inter viewers are a bigger problem than the format itself. 7 Yes, yes, this is horribly handy-wavy. It assumes a 70% pass-rate on all interviews, when in reality it might vary by company or interview type—or just luck. JOB SEARCHES, START TO FINISH Interview Replay: Recordings of actual mock interviews. Snippet: Material that you can copy/paste online, including email templates and code recipes. Resource: Bonus chapters, worksheets, and other material. Problems, Solutions, and AI Interviewer: You can try every problem in the book with the AI Interviewer. Solutions are online in four languages (Python, Java, JavaScript, and C++). Watch for these speech-bubble icons, which mean there is online content. PAR T III JOB SEARCHES, START TO FINISH CHAPTER 6 I CHAPTER 6 I CHAPTER 6 II RESUMES Material for this chapter at bctci.co/resumes You might have heard these two seemingly con& icting statements about resumes: •They're super duper important! They're what get you in the door! •People only skim them. These aren't necessarily con& icting, but they do seem at least somewhat at odds. Muddling all of this is the incredible amount of resources out there about optimizing resumes: books, blog posts, resume writers, free and paid resume templates, and so on. What's the truth? The truth is that recruiters don't spend too long reviewing your resume, it's hard to di$ er- entiate yourself with it, and much of what they do look for is out of your hands. This doesn't mean skip this—if you're going to spend weeks or months on interview prep, you might as well spend a little time on your resume. But realistically, this is not the place to stress. Optimize, but don't overoptimize. ▶ What about LinkedIn? While we're using the term "resume" here, almost everything here applies to LinkedIn. Consider LinkedIn your online resume. W H A T R E C R U I T E R S L O O K A T In 2024, interviewing.io ran a study 1 where they asked 76 recruiters to look at resumes and indicate which candidates they’d want to interview. They were most likely to contact you if: • Yo u l o o k g o o d o n p a p e r, i . e . , y o u h a v e t o p - t i e r c o m p a n i e s a n d / o r s c h o o l s o n y o u r r e s u m e ( i n o u r e x p e r i - ence, companies matter more) • You belong to a group that’s been traditionally underrepresented in tech (i.e., you’re a woman or a person of color) •To some extent, if you have niche skills (e.g., ML engineering) What's missing? Things like, for example, having a quanti# able impact or demonstrating teamwork. Essen- tially, everything recruiters look for is stu$ that you either have or you don't. 1 https://interviewing.io/blog/are-recruiters-better-than-a-coin-& ip-at-judging-resumes CHAPTER 6 ▸ RESUMES 45 Since you can’t magic FAANG+ experience or professional experience with niche skills, or belonging to an underrepresented group out of thin air 2 , how do you use this information to your