# PDF Chunk 17

advantage? We'll get there, but # rst you need to understand something else. Should you do side projects? As an engineer, I’d never discourage side projects—they can be fun, educational, and possibly take your career in a new direction. However, side projects are best pursued well in advance of a job search or simply because you enjoy it. Once you're actively looking for a job, your time is better spent on interview prep and outreach. You simply don't have enough time to make a cool enough project that it makes you that much more attractive to hiring managers. It isn't that these things have no value; they are just less likely to convert to a job. THEY AREN'T READING In this same study, we also learned that when recruiters do look at resumes, they spend an average of 30 seconds reviewing them. That's not enough time to read every bullet. Instead, they are mainly skimming for recognizable companies and schools. Here is an excellent example 3 —one that was successfully sent to recruiters—that makes this di$ erence very clear. This resume certainly passes the skim-test: good companies, appropriate roles, and a good university too. 2 This is why I generally view resume writers as selling snake oil. Either you have the things recruiters are looking for or you don’t. Additionally, non-technical resume writers will often focus on less relevant attributes because that's what they understand. For the most part, resume writers are a waste of time and money, and in some cases harmful. 3 https://www.reddit.com/r/recruitinghell/comments/qhg5jo/this_resume_got_me_an_interview/ 46 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, STAR T TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co It's only when you read the resume that you learn that not only is this resume obviously fake, but it also celebrates accomplishments like "Spread Herpes STD to 60% of intern team." And yet, it got a 90% callback rate. Recruiters just aren't reading the details. THEY AREN'T CONSISTENT In this same interviewing.io study, we also learned that recruiters were only slightly better than a coin &ip at identifying talent. And, what’s more, they all disagreed with each other about what a good resume looked like. 4 Recall all that resume advice you've probably heard, and stop and think: if people can't agree with each other on what makes a good resume, how can you optimize so much for this? We're saying all this not to suggest that you shouldn't care, but rather to encourage you to care a bit less. Do an adequate job and then put your focus elsewhere. AN ADEQUATE RESUME If recruiters are skimming your resume—not reading it—what do you do? You make your resume skimmable. That is, make the things recruiters are looking for—if you have them—really easy for recruiters to spot. 5 And if you don’t have these traits? It will still help you to do this. Everyone is aided by making their best stu$ easy to spot. These are the #ve easy steps to making an adequate resume: 1. Use a template. Any template will do. 2. Keep it to one or two pages. 3. Write up your work experience. Use clear, concise bullets. 4. Add your skills, education, and other sections. 5. Proofread. That's it. And, please, skip the resume writers 6 . RESUME TEMPLATES There are many templates online. Look for one which has: •Sections for Skills, Education, and Work Experience. •Columns for your companies, or something else that makes it very easy to see where you worked. •Will allow you to #t your resume on one (or two) pages. • Reasonable white space. Some resume templates put the headings like "Skills" and "Experience" as one big column, which takes up a lot of space. Unless you're struggling to #ll a single page, it's best to avoid these ones. •Uses bullets. 4 This was the second study of its kind that we did. We #rst got these results in 2014: https://blog.alinelerner.com/ resumes-suck-heres-the-data/ 5 Of course, whether you want to lead with underrepresented minority status is a personal decision. We’ve heard di$ering opinions on this and are not here to judge. All we can do is share the data—do with it what you will. 6 While there are some resume writers who produce good work, most do not. They will waste your money since, as we've explained, they're optimizing for things that mostly don't matter. On top of this, it's not unusual that a resume writer will actually cause damage. Most are not technical and don't know how to write a technical resume. They end up &u%ng your resume up with "leadership" and killing o$ the technical stu$. CHAPTER 6 ▸ RESUMES 47 The vast majority of resumes either # t these criteria or can be easily modi# ed to # t them. For your convenience though, we've provided some templates online at bctci.co/resume-templates. NOT!TOO!LONG RESUME Resumes should be one or two pages, generally. A good rule of thumb is that if you have held multiple jobs and have 10+ years of experience, you might be able to justify two pages. Other people should generally stick with one. In fact, for the vast majority of people, it's in your best interest to stick with one page. Remember that people are only spending 30 seconds or so on your resume because all they need to decide is "interview or no interview." When your resume is multiple pages, it's a lot easier to miss the highlights, like a great project or award. When it's all on one page, the best stu$ is more likely to jump out at them. If your current resume is too long Despite this advice, we routinely see resumes that are sometimes three or four pages (my record is seventeen pages... from someone with only a few years of experience!). If you have a super long resume and just don't know how to cut it down, here's our recommendation: don't cut it down. Start over! It is very di% cult to