# PDF Chunk 18

"edit" a resume from # ve pages down to just a page and a half. When you try to, you often # nd yourself wasting a lot of time condensing content that doesn't make much sense and isn't relevant. Just start over; it's faster. WRITING UP YOUR EXPERIENCE I'm reminded of Michael Pollan's healthy living suggestion: ▶Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants. Here's mine for resumes: ▶Write stu$ . Not too much. Mostly highlights. Almost as catchy, right? Identify Your Highlights What are the top few things that would make a recruiter say, "Yes, I want to interview you?" Design your resume around those items such that, in a 30-second glance, a recruiter will notice them. Let’s say you’re fortunate enough to have FAANG experience or niche skills. How do you make sure that stands out to recruiters? Take a look at the before and after screenshots of this resume. 7 He actually has two of the three things that recruiters look for: FAANG experience and a niche title (ML engineer). But both are buried! And the section that gets the most attention is wasted on undergraduate awards. 7 We realize that recruiters won’t always have access to your resume when doing outreach and are likely looking at your LinkedIn instead. The same advice stands. Make sure that your About section has all the most important tidbits about you, front and center. Also, even though we didn’t see the same strong preference for FAANGs and underrepresented minority status when applying online (more on that in the next section), making these types of changes to your resume certainly won’t hurt. 48 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, START TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co As you can see, he spent almost 3 years at Apple, but a recruiter skimming his resume might not notice that because it was a while ago. Instead, he showcases an undergrad award and some technologies/languages that he knows. Neither of those is nearly as useful to recruiters as FAANG experience. His current title is also ML engineer, and one at the Principal level at that. But it wasn’t always: He went from back-end to SRE to a little bit of everything to ML, and because of that, it’s possible a recruiter would miss it as well. We edited this candidate’s resume to put all the things recruiters look for at the very top of the resume and moved the buzzword soup to the bottom. This candidate is obviously well-positioned because he has FAANG CHAPTER 6 ▸ RESUMES 49 experience, several top schools, and niche skills—but before, many recruiters didn’t spot them. After he made these changes, the number of interviews he got increased by 8X. Clear, Concise Bullets Bullets don’t matter that much, but you have to have something there, so you might as well take a few minutes to clean them up. Bullet points should be clear and concise, demonstrating what you worked on and its impact. For example: • Clear impact: Created and launched a service that collects product opinions and recommendations from Twitter. The service #nds related tweets, removes spam, analyzes sentiment and creates a struc- tured database of everything that was said about particular products. • Unclear impact: Designed software application including: data modeling, software architecture design, software-hardware integration, user interface design, and database management. Where possible, use metrics to back up the impact. Don't force it though; many accomplishments don't have associated metrics. Be careful that your bullets aren't too long, either. Bullets should be a mix of 1 - 2 lines. Giant blocks of text are very hard to understand. When you only have time (or only feel like spending the time) to skim, paragraphs are going to get skipped. Company/Team Summaries For each company where you worked, if it’s not a household name, write a 1 - 2 sentence summary of what the company did. If it is a household name, write a 1 - 2 sentence summary of what your team’s purpose was. If it's really obvious (e.g., front-end on Google Docs), you can skip it if you're short on space. This is mostly here to set context for your bullets. SKILLS, EDUCATION AND OTHER SECTIONS While you'll typically have a section for Skills and Education on your resume, there are no hard-and-fast rules for what sections you can and can't have. •Got some cool projects? Great! Go for it. That's pretty common, in fact. •Contribute to a lot of open source projects? Okay, you can have an "open source" section. •Won some relevant awards? Okie dokie. An awards section it is. The point is to make your awesomeness standout, quickly. Do what you need to do to make that happen. About Whether you have an About section is really up to you. It can be a useful way to showcase details that might otherwise be missed (e.g., FAANG+ experience that isn't recent), but this isn't something you need to include. Our recommendation is to not include it during your #rst draft, but then to put it in if your highlights are otherwise being missed. Education Yo u ' r e t y p i c a l l y g o i n g t o h a v e a n E d u c a t i o n s e c t i o n o n y o u r r e s u m e. As a mediocre rule of thumb, current students or fresh grads will typically list education #rst, and professionals will list work experience #rst. This is convention, but it came to be for a very good reason: it showcases what is typically more relevant. Screw convention. If this isn't what's best for you, then do something di$erent. • If, for example, you are currently attending a no-name university with an Economics degree but have some FAANG+ internships as a Software Engineer, then you probably are better o$ listing