# PDF Chunk 19

your work experience #rst. 50 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, STAR T TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co •If you went to, say, MIT but then went to work as a chef for a few years before trying to claw your way back into coding, perhaps your education is more relevant. (That's probably a silly example 8 , right?) Yes, some people might initially misread your resume, but that's perhaps a risk worth taking. GPA You don't have to list your GPA on your resume and most people don't care a whole lot—or, at least, they say they don't. If you're a current student or new grad, the conventional wisdom is: •List your GPA if it's above a 3.0 •Skip it if it's below a 3.0 This is one of those cases where conventional wisdom is reasonable. Note that, because this is the conven- tional wisdom, recruiters will often make the assumption that "no GPA" implies "low GPA." # Again, people don't care much about your GPA. However, your GPA typically gets listed on the same line as your degree, so it also doesn't take up additional space. If you have a good GPA and you've graduated recently, it doesn't hurt you to list it. If you have considerable experience, you probably want to just leave o$ your GPA. It just looks weird when someone has 20+ years of experience and still has their GPA on their resume. Skills It's standard to list what languages and technologies you know. But do you list everything you ever worked with? Just what you're comfortable being tested on right now? What you could brush up on fairly quickly? What exactly does an interviewer assume by the listing of a speci#c language on your resume? I (Gayle) have asked this question to hundreds of interviewers over the years, and answers are all over the map. Some interviewers assume "pro#ciency" if a language is on a resume, and then others assume "you worked with it at some point"—and many others are in between. What this means for you is that whatever you do is wrong... or right. Here's our advice: •List languages in pro#ciency order •Drop a language if neither of the following is true: »You have worked with it (professionally or personally) in depth in the last three years »You could code a typical interview question with it, with only minor syntax errors •Focus on languages, not &avors of a language (particularly for top-tier companies and most startups). There is stigma 9 at many companies when candidates list every version of a language. If you aren't sure whether a language makes the cut, you can describe your pro#ciency. For example, you can say "Skills: Python (pro#cient); Java (pro#cient); C++ (prior experience but now rusty). 8 https://www.linkedin.com/in/alinelerner/details/experience/ 9 When people ask why there is stigma, the answer usually goes something about companies hiring in a language agnostic way; if they are okay hiring a Java developer to write Python, then why would they care about which versions of Python you know? That's true, but doesn't address the stigma question. The answer to that is a bit unfair, but it is essentially that while top-tier companies are language agnostic, many lower-tier companies are not. And in fact, the lower-tier companies often do care about the speci#c &avors of a language. When you list the &avors of Java that you know, they bucket you as a developer who would work for a lower-tier company. It's not fair, but it's the truth. CHAPTER 6 ▸ RESUMES 51 Projects If you don't have much work experience, or if you don't have experience in a relevant technology, projects can boost your relevant experience. You might as well show these o$, if you have them. Don't list every project you've done though. Typically, you want to stick to at most three projects. After this, you are typically just #lling in less interesting or relevant projects. PROOFREAD Per a study I (Aline) did when I was head of talent at TrialPay 10 , one of the best predictors of who got an o$er was the number of typos and grammatical errors: the best candidates had two or fewer mistakes. While non-coders often won't be surprised by this (isn't this the advice our moms and dads used to tell us?), it's often a surprise to coders—speci#cally, that this would apply to even an engineering resume. Why would people care so much about typos on an engineer's resume? Is this even fair, particularly given that, for many engineers, English is their second (or third or fourth!) language? We can argue all we want about whether this is "fair," and it might even be merely correlation 11 not causation. Nonetheless, in case it is causal, you'd be advised to proofread. You don’t want your resume to look like this: Read it yourself, use the automated spelling/grammar check, send it to your favorite bot, and have a friend check it 12 . RELAX Let's end with a good (and by good, we mean terrible) story. It’s from an early employee at one of the FAANGs, which we'll call "Company" to protect the guilty. A long time ago, when Company was still small, we moved from our small downtown o%ce to a new o%ce in a local business park. Years later, I had a meeting in a conference room I'd never been to before. On my way to the room, I heard some beeps. I went searching for the source of the beeps, and in some small side room, in a deserted corner of the building, was a printer with a big stack of paper in the out tray. I looked at the papers, and they were all cover letters and resumes. I looked into it and found out that this printer was also a fax machine! It turned out that it was the fax number on Company's o%cial 10 https://blog.alinelerner.com/lessons-from-a-years-worth-of-hiring-data/ 11 Perhaps, engineers who proofread their