# PDF Chunk 20

resumes carefully are also more likely to check their code thoroughly. Or perhaps they were more passionate about that job and so they proofread their resume more. Or perhaps... a variety of other non-causal explanations. 12 I (Gayle) once received a resume where a candidate described that she was "inept at Javascript." I presume she meant "adept" (skilled) and was not intending to reveal herself to be incompetent. 52 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, STAR T TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co jobs page! For years, the fax number mentioned on our jobs page went to a printer in some corner that nobody knew existed. Despite all of this—your resume not actually being the thing that gets you noticed, how little time recruit- ers spend reviewing your resume, how inconsistent reviewers are, how little you can actually do to drive change—we’ve seen candidates agonize over each bullet point, #nessing each and every word. But if the people reading your resume are barely skimming and can't agree on what they're looking for, it is incredibly di%cult to optimize. Yo u n e e d t o g e t s o m e o n e t o c o n s i d e r y o u. That is done through personal outreach, not picking out your resume from the black hole that is an ATS (Applicant Tracking System). Make your resume good enough for when someone opens your email and is intrigued, but don't stress too much about it. Job searches are stressful enough. CHAPTER 7 I CHAPTER 7 I CHAPTER 7 II GETTING IN THE DOOR Material for this chapter at bctci.co/getting-in-the-door We recently surveyed interviewing.io users about which methods of getting in the door at companies worked well for them in their last job search. Here are the results. 1 Interestingly, these results were quite consistent between company types; channels that worked well for FAANGs tended to work well for startups and vice versa. E# ective recruiting channels, ranked from most to least e# ective: •Warm referrals (referrals from people who know you well and have worked with you in the past) •In-house recruiters contact you •Apply online •Cold outreach to hiring managers Ine# ective recruiting channels: •Cold outreach to recruiters •Cold referrals (referrals from people who don’t know you) •Agency recruiters contact you Overall, the most useful channels were in-house recruiters (when they reached out to you) and warm referrals. Obviously, whether you know someone at a company you’re interested in and whether recruiters reach out to you are largely out of your control. So what can you control? Here are all of these channels, graphed with respect to both their e$ ectiveness and how much control you have over them. It turns out that cold outreach to hiring managers, when done right, is both e$ ective and controllable. In our experience, that channel is both misused and underutilized and is the best bet for many candidates (see "What to Actually Do" on page 59). Now let’s look at each channel in detail. 1 This data came primarily from surveying experienced engineers (4+ years), rather than juniors. G e t t i n g i n t h e D o o r 54 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, START TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co Figure 1. Channels graphed with respect to both their e$ ectiveness and how much control you have over them. IN'HOUSE RECRUITERS CONTACT YOU You have little control over this. The best thing you can do is to make sure that the things recruiters look for (pg 44) are well-highlighted on your resume (if it’s public-facing) and on your LinkedIn. The rest is luck. A P P L Y O N L I N E If you’ve ever applied to jobs online, then you know it’s kind of like screaming into a black hole. 2 Though some candidates get value out of this channel, it’s still a numbers game. According to recruiting tool Gem, applicants who come from recruiter outreach (called “outbound” in recruiter lingo) are 6 - 10X more likely to get hired than applicants who apply online (called “inbound”). 3 As Lyft recruiting manager Nate Wylie put it: Our data... showed higher pass-through rates for candidates [we reached out to] at each stage of the interview process vs. applicants via the careers page. It’s not that we want to ignore applicants; it’s just that historically we don’t get what we’re looking for—and with speed—through that channel. 4 The silver lining here is that when you don’t hear back from a company (or even when you get an automatic rejection email wishing you "the best in your future endeavors"), it’s not because a human looked at your resume and made a deliberate, thoughtful decision about you. It’s tempting to think that way because it plays so well into our insecurities. The reality is that a human probably never saw your resume in the # rst place. 2 Or, like faxing your resume to an old machine buried in a closet that no one has entered in years. 3 https://www.gem.com/blog/outbound-candidates-more-likely-to-be-hired 4 Having been a recruiter myself, I (Aline) can con# rm that many companies do indeed ignore their online careers page. Many years ago, when I # rst joined the recruiting team at a top-tier startup, I spent my # rst few days going through the resumes of people who had applied online. I found a treasure trove of candidates, including very experienced applicants from top-tier companies. But no one had seen these applicants because no one had been monitoring inbound activity for months! CHAPTER 7 ▸ GETTING IN THE DOOR 55 So why do people apply online, despite knowing in their gut that it’s not an e$ ective strategy? Simply put, it’s predictable and easy. You get into a routine, you upload your resume, you connect your LinkedIn, and