# PDF Chunk 21

you can knock out hundreds of applications in a matter of hours. # Applying online doesn’t hurt, as long as you don't get personally hurt over it. If you do, it’ll wear you down over time. WARM REFERRALS Warm referrals are, of course, excellent. That is, assuming it's a real referral—someone who can actually vouch for you, and ideally, your work. Per capita, referrals are most companies’ best source of candidates, and they were a great channel for our users across all company types. If you have the network, you should absolutely use it. Just keep in mind that most internal referral forms contain a question about how well you know this person and where this person ranks (top 5%, bottom 10%, etc.) in your estimation, compared to other people you’ve worked with. Just because someone refers you doesn’t mean they’ll be dishonest on this form, so take care to choose your referrers wisely. Even if you have a great history with someone, we know that asking for a referral can be awkward, so if you're struggling with # nding the right words, here are some handy snippets you can use, depending on the situation: bctci.co/outreach-what-to-say-1 Of course, it’s unlikely that you’ll have meaningful connections at every company you want to work at. What do you do then? COLD REFERRALS Should you ask people you don't know to refer you? Our survey data says probably not. While cold referrals once worked, 5 many companies nowadays separate referrals into "true referrals" and "leads." It’s great for maintaining the delicate dance of social dynamics, but it’s useless for getting hired— dropping someone’s resume into the “leads” pile is like throwing it into the inbound black hole. Given that cold referrals aren’t zero e$ ort, our advice is to expend that energy elsewhere. More on that shortly. AGENCY RECRUITERS Agency recruiters were the worst channel overall, according to our survey, and were net negative for all company types. FAANGs and FAANG-adjacent companies tend to rely less on agencies than startups, and when they do, it’s to # ll some very speci# c need (rather than “Hey we need more SWEs”), so it’s not surprising that our users didn’t get much value from this channel when applying to FAANGs. 5 Years ago, trying to collect cold referrals was a decent strategy. You could track down someone at the company and ask them to toss your proverbial hat into the ring. Engineers were often happy to refer someone — even someone they didn't know — either to be kind, to avoid the awkwardness of declining, or to collect the potential referral bonus. They couldn't vouch for you, but the referral would ensure that a human looked at your resume. This became so common that Blind spun out an entire referral marketplace where applicants would pay a small sum for a referral. Then, companies wised up and realized that these referrals weren't all that di$ erent from normal inbound applicants. So why treat them di$ erently? 56 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, STAR T TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co While both large and small startups use agencies liberally, clearly the value to candidates is limited. 6 Out of all of our survey respondents, only a handful of our users said that agencies were useful to them, and of those who mentioned agencies, the majority said that they were the worst channel. We won’t belabor the point, but it’s probably not in your best interest to spend much time working with agency recruiters. It has an opportunity cost and not much upside. And you can routinely get screwed in salary negotiations when you work with an agency recruiter (pg 29), if you even get that far. COLD OUTREACH Not all cold outreach is created equal, for two reasons. First, there’s your audience: hiring managers vs. recruiters. And then there’s the quality of the outreach itself. We'll talk more about how to write the kinds of messages that will get you responses (pg 61), but #rst, let’s talk about the audience. Yo u c a n s e e i n o u r s u r v e y r e s u l t s t h a t c o l d o u t r e a c h t o h i r i n g m a n a g e r s w a s n e t p o s i t i v e fo r FA A N G / FA A N G - adjacent companies and neutral for the other company types. Cold outreach to recruiters, on the other hand, was net negative for both FAANG/FAANG-adjacents and small startups and neutral for large startups. Ignoring the quality of the outreach for a moment, which we expect is probably comparable for both types, why does this di$erence exist? If you had to answer the question of who’s the right person to reach out to about jobs, your gut instinct might be to say it’s recruiters. After all, hiring good people is o%cially their job! But what does “good” really mean? COLD OUTREACH TO RECRUITERS DOESN’T WORK When I ran my own recruiting agency, I kept running into the same wall. I’d present candidates who didn’t look good on paper but who I had strong reason to believe were actually good. Recruiters at my client companies, by and large, would not entertain those candidates because it was simply too risky for them. Engi- neering time is precious, and if a recruiter presents a candidate who doesn’t #t the mold and that candidate ultimately doesn’t work out, it’s a strike against the recruiter. On the other hand, if a recruiter continually presents “safe”, name-brand candidates, some of whom make it through and some of whom do not, no one can blame you. It’s the whole adage about how no one ever got #red for choosing IBM, except with