# PDF Chunk 22

people. To put it really concretely, I’d expect that as an in-house recruiter, if you presented 10 name-brand candidates, 8 of whom didn’t get an o$er, 1 of whom did but was clearly never interested in your company, and 0 of whom got hired, no one would bat an eye. On the other hand, if you presented 10 candidates, all of whom looked kind of weird on paper, 2 of whom got o$ers, and 1 of whom got hired, you’d probably get a stern talking to. 7 You might think that, over time, companies would start to track which recruiters bring in candidates who actually get hired and reward those recruiters. The reality is that most recruiters aren’t evaluated this way because it takes too long. 6 We’d argue that the value to companies is limited as well. Though there are a handful of excellent agency recruiters out there, most are terrible. The hard thing is that, as an employer, you can’t immediately tell who’s terrible, and you end up wasting a bunch of time reviewing pro#les of candidates who might look promising on the surface, but because of selection bias (these are the people who decided to work with bad agency recruiters, after all) are not a #t. That or they’re not interested in your company (and have possibly never even opted in to talk to you) or both. 7 One of the #rst companies I worked with when I was running my own agency made a deal with me after seeing the non-traditional kinds of candidates I presented. They said that, though they’d be down to talk to the #rst 3 candidates I sent their way, if most of them didn’t make it to at least onsite, I was going to be #red. Not only did they work with me for a long time, this company later became one of interviewing.io’s #rst customers. CHAPTER 7 ▸ GETTING IN THE DOOR 57 In theory, recruiters can be evaluated on what portion of their candidates get o$ers or get to onsite. However, because of candidate drop-o$ and latency (getting an o$er can still take months), your organization has to be pretty good at tracking metrics. Many are not. As such, many recruiting teams prefer simpler, faster metrics: Of the candidates you reached out to, how many responded? Of those who responded, how many resulted in a #rst conversation? The downside of measuring success in a single part of the funnel is that you don’t incentivize people to care about what happens downstream (that is, how many are hired). This would be like if marketers only paid attention to ad clicks, rather than actual purchases (although that’s often how it works with marketers, too). So, if you are typically just measuring the response rates of your reports, you have to set some guardrails and proxies for the types of candidates that you want your team to reach out to. If you don’t, they’ll end up just reaching out to people who are likely to respond instead of people who are a good #t for the job. That brings us back to the idea of a “name-brand” candidate that we discussed earlier. So what does a name-brand candidate look like? You can’t just go on LinkedIn, and say, “Find me good engineers.” 8 That doesn’t exist. So instead, you come up with some proxies that look like this: • Senior engineers. Why seniors? Juniors are generally easier to hire, so companies don’t need to go beyond what they usually do to #ll those roles. For college students, specifically, there’s a separate university department that deals with college hires once a year in September. •Went to a top school •Worked at a top company There may be a few other items on the list if the role requires speci#c skills (e.g., Android development), but by and large, that’s what recruiters are tasked with, and that’s what they’re focused on. # What does this mean for you? If you’re not the type of candidate that recruiters are reaching out to already (senior, well-pedigreed), they will not help you. 8 People think that because recruiters are, generally speaking, not technical, they can’t identify talent. In fairness, hiring managers aren’t very good at identifying talent based on resumes either. When I tested engineers vs. engineering managers vs. recruiters at this task, I learned everyone is bad at it: https://blog.alinelerner.com/resumes-suck-heres- the-data/ 58 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, STAR T TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co With that sad reality in mind, here’s the good news: there is someone who’s actually incentivized to make hires and is much more open-minded: the hiring manager! 9 REACH OUT TO HIRING MANAGERS INSTEAD Unlike recruiters, hiring managers are judged on how quickly and e$ectively they’re able to build stu$, and are—directly or indirectly—incentivized to grow headcount. 10 For hiring managers, it’s not about the appear- ance of doing the work; it’s about the cold, hard reality of whether the work got done. And because they’re judged on actually getting stu$ done, hiring managers are also much more incentivized than recruiters to take risks. Outside of needing more people to build things, hiring managers are also incentivized to hire for their teams because the better they are at recruiting and #lling headcount, the more likely they are to get promoted. So, armed with an understanding of how hiring works behind the scenes, here’s our recommended, hyper- practical approach. It starts with treating your job like a sales funnel. TREAT YOUR JOB SEARCH LIKE A SALES FUNNEL If you’re an engineer, chances are you haven’t ever done sales. 11 But if you do sales for any appreciable amount of time, you’ll start thinking about everything in life as a funnel. Funnels are wide at the top and narrow at the bottom. That’s why they’re such an apt metaphor for the sales process—you do a lot of outreach, and you don’t get many responses.