# PDF Chunk 23

Of the responses you do get, relatively few will do the thing you want them to do. And even fewer will ultimately “close” (aka, buying—or, in this case, hiring). In your engineering career, you’ve mastered many abstract concepts that are much more complex than a funnel. Despite its simplicity, however, the funnel is one of the hardest concepts to internalize emotionally, especially for people who are used to having control over outcomes. When you write code for n hours, you can expect that you will build m features. In sales though, you do a lot of work, very little of it will pan out, and when it does pan out, it can feel almost random; an impersonal, mediocre email gets a response while your beautifully targeted email is met with deafening silence. And then there’s rejection. When you apply to jobs online and don’t hear back, it stings, but the sting is softened by the possibility that a human never even saw your application. You’re not reaching out to people when you apply online; you’re dealing with a bureaucratic machine. 9 Note that if you’re interested in smaller startups (Series A and below), you can substitute “founder” for “hiring manager” in these steps. Founders are the most incentivized to get shit done and take risks, regardless of company size and stage, but at larger startups, they may be less likely to read cold emails because they get bombarded with all manners of requests and sales pitches. At a Series B or C company or at public companies with fewer than, say, 3000 employees, in addition to hiring managers, you should also target Directors and VPs — they have the power to get things done and aren’t so far removed from feeling the pain of not #lling roles that making an extra hire or two is out of their purview. At large public companies, targeting Directors and above doesn’t make much sense — they ARE too far removed from doing the work to make individual hires. If you do contact them, the best outcome is that they’ll pass you on to one of their direct reports. 10 Yes, hiring managers are actually sometimes evaluated on their ability to hire. Moreover, the more headcount a manager is able to command, the greater their political capital inside the organization, and the easier it is to not only get promoted but also get hired at their next company for increasingly senior titles. 11 Maybe you had a job in high school selling Cutco knives or magazines, in which case what we’re about to say will resonate. CHAPTER 7 ▸ GETTING IN THE DOOR 59 On the other hand, when you email a real human and they don’t respond, that hurts: you put yourself out there, someone made a value judgment about you, and you lost. The good news is that, after a while, the pain lessens, and you build up some useful emotional calluses and acquire the thousand-yard stare of someone who’s been rejected a million times for a million reasons, ranging from soul-crushingly legitimate to incontrovertibly random. Sadly, there’s no shortcut. You’ve got to do the reps, you’ve got to get the rejections, and you’ve got to pick yourself up again. You get used to it, and then it doesn’t hurt as much, because experience has taught you that if you keep going, you will eventually get to a yes. PREREQUISITES/TOOLING •Buy a month or two of LinkedIn Sales Navigator. This will run you a few hundred dollars, but it’s worth it. •Get an account with an email discovery tool like RocketReach. • Get Streak, which lets you do mail merges in Gmail. You create an email template, with variables for everything from recipient name to long snippets of personalized text, and then you upload a CSV with all the values. The resulting emails feel personalized but get sent to hundreds of people at once. W H A T T O A C T U A L L Y D O Figure out which companies you’re interested in First, make a list of the companies where you want to work. This sounds easy, but it’s not necessarily. Many people will just write down a few FAANGs and whatever companies are hot right now and call it a day. That’s not necessarily a bad strategy. Having a top-tier brand on your resume can legitimize you for future job searches, and they tend to pay well too. But we recommend you look beyond the obvious to other companies whose work might excite you: •Are there any dev tools that you really admire? •Are there any open-source projects you follow? •Are there any engineers you follow on social media whose work you admire? • Look at where your friends work by combing through Facebook or LinkedIn or both. Reach out to them to ask what it’s like (before you even ask for a referral). If you’re not sure how to ask people about the day-to-day, we’ve included a template for you in the Referrals section:bctci.co/outreach-what-to-say-1 Here are some resources to help you # nd companies you might be interested in: Y Combinator’s Work at a Startup, Wellfound, Remote Rocketship, levels.fyi, Glassdoor, and Blind. Get links and more details at: bctci.co/resources-to-# nd-companies Make your target list Once you have your list of companies, use LinkedIn Sales Navigator to # nd hiring managers at those compa- nies (or founders or directors or VPs, as above). If the list is large, consider # lters for: 60 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, START TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co •Just targeting managers, not Directors or VPs. Google is a huge organization. You want the people who are most likely to help, and they’re the ones who are struggling to hire for their teams. • In position for less than 2 years: These are the people who are still trying to prove themselves and who are less likely to have a