# PDF Chunk 24

long-standing relationship with their recruiter to the point where they only rely on internal recruiting and overlook other sources of candidates. •Geography: Let's focus on the places we most want to work. • 1st- or 2nd-degree connection: This way, when they look you up, they’ll see some social proof. You can expand this to 3rd-degree connections if needed. Once you have your list, put their LinkedIn URLs into a spreadsheet. Then, do a pass through your targets’ pro# les and see if any of them link to personal websites, social media accounts, blogs, or anything else that will help you # nd common ground with them. Add any useful links in your spreadsheet because we’ll be mining them when we actually write our emails. If you come from a non-traditional background (e.g., you didn’t attend a top school or work at a prestigious company), consider adding startups to your target list, if you’re at all open to working at a startup. Then try to # nd startups who have a founder from a non-traditional background like you—you’d be surprised by how many founders don’t have a traditional pedigree (many end up taking the founder road because they get tired of being overlooked). If you can # nd people like you, it’ll be easier to establish common ground, and you’ll be more likely to get a response. Look up their email addresses Once you have your list of LinkedIn URLs, use a tool like RocketReach to look up their emails. RocketReach is a nice tool for email discovery because 1) it takes LinkedIn URLs as inputs and 2) its email database is generally up-to-date and correct. CHAPTER 7 ▸ GETTING IN THE DOOR 61 Why not reach out on LinkedIn? While recruiters live on LinkedIn, managers generally do not. They may not even like or check LinkedIn much. They live in their email, so that's where you want to target them. If RocketReach fails or you don't wish to pay for it, you might just be able to guess their email address, as email addresses tend to follow common forms: #rstname@company.com, #rstinitial.lastname@company. com, or #rstname.lastname@company.com. Where possible, contact managers via their work email address. 12 It’s okay to fall back to their personal email if you can’t #gure out the work one, though. Outreach emails are not a job application Before we tell you how to write outreach emails, it’s important to understand that they are di$erent from a job application. • Yo u ’r e c o n n e c t i n g w i t h a h u m a n b e i n g , n o t a n A p p l i c a n t Tr a c k i n g S y s t e m . Your goal is to make them think you’re worth talking to. If you were at a party, you wouldn’t come up to a person and immediately start listing frameworks and languages that you know, so don’t do that here. • Not super focused on a speci$c position or team. Job descriptions are written badly, many open roles aren’t listed, and you will never have enough information to make this decision. Be ok with that, and just focus on getting in the door somehow. This means that when you come up with your target list, you don’t have to #nd exactly the right hiring manager. All you need to do is get in the door with someone, and then they’ll route you to someone else. This email isn’t the be-all and end-all of your job search. It won’t get you a job. It will just get you in the door. It doesn’t need to be perfect. You just need to get to the next step. Write succinct, highly personalized emails Now that you have your target list, it’s time to compose a fairly personalized, yet short, email. All too often, candidates write a long, generic cover letter that’s clearly been sent to a ton of people. I get many emails that look like this (in these emails, we left in typos if there were any to begin with): Hello Aline, By way of linkedin search connections, I found through your contact information. I am a Engineering management professional with 16+ years of engineering experience currently on the lookout for a suitable job in Bay Area. As part of Corporate restructuring and leadership changes at Paypal, my job was one of 2400 positions that was eliminated thereby giving me a splendid opportunity to explore outside jobs. In my recent experience at REDACTED, I have played diverse engineering roles including Leading the REDACTED In-store partner engineering organization, Sr Manager of PMO and Chief of Sta$ for a 400+ strong engineering org and other Program Management roles. I am speci#cally looking across most of the Product-oriented technology companies in Bay Area (preference on Retail, E-Commerce, Payments, Hi-tech industries) as Director of Engineering/PMO/Professional Services. I have prior experience on di$erent aspects on technology integrations (Java, REST, API, Oracle, SQL, AWS, EJB, Javascript) and also various management and operational expertise (Managed Services, 12 Recruiters should not contact candidates on their work email address, but that's because they're trying to make the candidate leave their job. You are trying to join the manager, which is why it's okay to use their work email address. 62 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, STAR T TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co Contract management, Business operations, Program Management, Leadership, Strategy planning, Vendor negotiation, Consulting, Product Integrations). I really do appreciate your time and excited to work with you in my search. My detailed resume is attached, if you've time this week, we can catch up over phone or a co$ee to provide you further details. Appreciate your assistance! Thanks, REDACTED ▶Don’t do this! This email sounds generic and has probably been sent to many people. Hi Aline, I am writing to express