# PDF Chunk 25

my strong interest in joining the engineering team at interviewing.io. With my extensive experience in engineering, I would love to discuss how I can help Interviewing.io achieve even greater heights. I’ve had success driving growth for companies like REDACTED, Amazon, Tata Group and I believe my skills would be incredibly bene#cial for your team. Quick Highlights: • Achieved a 20% month-over-month improvement in system performance metrics at REDACTED through optimized engineering work&ows and scalable solutions. • Played an integral role in building and deploying data-driven algorithms at Amazon, scaling the seller's GMV by 3X via enhanced platform reliability and feature innovation. • Core skills include Software Development, Distributed Systems, API Design, Cloud Infrastructure (AWS, GCP, Azure), and Machine Learning Engineering. Please #nd my CV here Would you be open to a quick chat this week to explore how I could contribute to Interviewing.io's success? I’m looking forward to the possibility of working with you. Regards, REDACTED ▶ Don’t do this either! There is nothing here about why this candidate is a good #t for interviewing.io, and the bullets aren’t compelling enough on their own. Emails like the above are impersonal and tell me that you didn't really invest time in understanding me and my company. If you didn't invest in me, why should I invest in you? • Don't open the email with how they found you. We really don't care, and you want the #rst line to be meaningful. • Don't be overly formal in how you address the person. Use their $rst name. 13 • Don't get their gender wrong (e.g., referring to a woman as "sir"); you’d be surprised how often this happens). • Don't paste in a generic cover letter. These are sure to get ignored—if you’re not going to put in the e$ort to write to me personally, why would I put in the e$ort to read your email? 13 In some cultures, using your target’s #rst name might come o$ as overly informal. Use your best judgment here if outside the U.S. CHAPTER 7 ▸ GETTING IN THE DOOR 63 • Don’t lead with “buzzword soup”. You’re talking to a human and trying to build rapport with them, not subverting an Applicant Tracking System. • Don't forget to include a link to a LinkedIn or a personal website. We don’t recommend attaching your resume, though. It can seem overly formal/somewhat presumptuous if you're trying to build rapport. 14 More broadly, if you want someone to go out on a limb for you, make it dead simple for them to justify expending their social/political capital on you. Hiring managers, as a rule, want to help. Make it a no-brainer for them. There are three components to a great cold email: 1. Common ground with your target: Not every cold email will have common ground; there’s simply not enough information out there about some targets to be able to craft a compelling narrative that’s highly personalized to them. 2. Proof that you’re worthy of their time: It is your job to sell yourself quickly and succinctly. You want your target to feel like they’d be an idiot to pass up the chance to talk to you. 3. A strong call to action: Ask for a meeting or something else. Let's dive into these in more detail. Finding common ground The email below is personal, succinct, and #nds common ground. Not only that, but it conveniently #nds common ground that bene"ts the candidate (a soft-spot for non-traditional candidates, like themselves!). Aline, I've been reading your blog over the past 6 months and I seriously appreciate your pragmatic, no-nonsense approach to technical recruiting. In your recent article about building technical recruit- ing products, you included a footnote about non-traditional candidates that really resonated with me. I consider myself one of those non-traditional candidates—not always the obvious #t on paper, but I kick ass once I'm in an interview. I would love to work with you if there is an opportunity to do so. If not, perhaps in the future. In either case, thank you for taking a few minutes to read this email and best of luck with interviewing.io. Thanks, REDACTED To #n d c o m m o n g ro u n d, re fe re n c e s o m e t h i n g yo u r t a rg e t c a re s a b o u t. Then either show them that you care about it too or that helping you would #t into their worldview and further that cause. Here are some examples of great ways to build common ground: • Reference a project they worked on (maybe they wrote a blog post about it, mentioned it in a comment on Hacker News, or are a contributor to some open-source project). Then, either talk about relevant work you've done (if there is a genuine connection) or alternatively ask a thoughtful question or two about theirs. •Reference a controversial 15 point of view that they hold, and a%rm it in an authentic way. 14 If you don’t have a LinkedIn or a personal site, then a resume may be better than nothing. But also, creating a LinkedIn pro#le is free, so if you don't have a LinkedIn pro#le, go make one. 15 We mean something like "spaces are better than tabs", not something erring into viewpoints that could be o$ensive or discriminatory. 64 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, STAR T TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co •In the absence of something technical, it’s okay to reference something non-technical you've seen on their public pro#les. We've seen candidates connect with strangers based on a shared love of Star Wars or Hearthstone. We understand that you won't always be able to #nd common ground. But if you can, it'll help you a lot, especially if you’re light on social proof or accomplishments. Selling yourself Selling yourself is usually about one