# PDF Chunk 26

of two things: •Accomplishments: What have you built or created? •Social proof: Have you worked at a top company or attended a top school? Some people are fortunate enough to have both, but many will have just one. That’s okay. We’ll work with what you have! Accomplishments should answer the following questions. What have you done that most other people haven’t? What have you done that, if you were to tell it to a stranger, would cause them to pause and think you're special or interesting? Below are some examples: •A blog post you wrote about a technical topic did well 16 on Hacker News, Reddit, or social media. •Something you built got some great press when your company announced its last funding round. •You refactored a piece of code at work, and now it runs 100X faster. •You won a company hackathon. •You’re a core contributor to a notable open-source project. •Something you built is being used by a number of other people. Remember, even if you're a new engineer in the #eld, and you don't have job experience yet, you still have accomplishments you can highlight! Social proof is about your pedigree—attending a top school, working at a company known for having a high engineering bar, etc. People won't click on links or open your resume until after they're interested, so you need to get them interested right away. That is: you should spoon-feed them the most impressive-sounding things about you out of the gate. This may feel strange and uncomfortable like you’re bragging. However, we assure you that it’s necessary to get your target’s attention. They ’re not think ing you’re bragging. They’re thinking, “Is this worth my time?” Your job is to convince them that it is. Also, don’t forget to link to your LinkedIn or personal website. Attaching a resume may feel too heavy-handed for a #rst conversation, as we discussed earlier (pg 63). Here's an example of a prospective intern, leveraging both social proof and accomplishments, to write a compelling email. Hello Ms. Lerner, My name is REDACTED, and I am a sophomore at MIT. I wanted to reach out directly to you, as I am looking for a possible opportunity to sharpen my technical skills over this REDACTED and truly love Interviewing.io’s mission in reimagining the art of engineering recruitment! I have extensive experience in software development, having interned at IBM, MIT CSAIL (being featured by Redacted Newspaper 1 and Redacted Newspaper 2), and REDACTED previously (resumes attached 16 Many people think that for something to be worth mentioning, it has to have gone viral. That’s simply not correct – in our niche space, a few hundred likes or a few thousand upvotes is already really impressive. CHAPTER 7 ▸ GETTING IN THE DOOR 65 below), and would love to possibly intern as a Software Engineering or Machine Learning Intern at Interviewing.io REDACTED remotely or in-person. I would also be more than happy to possibly interview for the position to show our capabilities! Genuinely, I would love to join the Interviewing.io team—a community of changemakers—and believe I can add tangible value to a project with my previous SWE/ML background while growing my skills as I enter my Junior year of college. As an entrepreneurial leader, I hope you can resonate with my strong passion for tech and hope you will give me a shot! His email isn't super personalized, but he did make some e$ort to say that what we do at interviewing.io is important. Well done. Formulating a strong call to action A call to action is an invitation for the recipient to do something, such as extend a job interview or start a conversation. Those with more social proof or accomplishments are more likely to be able to be bold and ask for a job interview. Without it, you may need to focus on building common ground and ask for just a conversation. If you’re asking for an interview, just come right out and say it. You can use the intern candidate’s email from earlier as a guide. Asking for a conversation can be tricky. To wit, take a look at the email below. Hi Aline, I've been a big fan of the research you've shared on interviewing.io on things like score variability, Cours- era vs top school e$ects, and judging resumes. You're adding much needed data to a #eld historically #lled with anecdotes and rules of thumb and more people need to know about it. I would love to interview you on what you've identi#ed from interviewing.io on what works (and what doesn't) in terms of identifying engineering talent.Would you be open to scheduling a 30 min call in the next few weeks? Best, REDACTED In this email, the candidate doesn’t ask me about jobs—he just asks to meet to discuss a topic. Indeed, he’s done his research. I write a ton about judging resumes, and it’s a topic I could go on about for hours if you’ll let me. His email read like he was genuinely interested in the subject and that we’d have a good conversation, so of course I responded. You’d be surprised how rare emails like this are. If you can #nd the topic your target cares about and write something that shows earnest, genuine interest, odds are good that they'll respond. With these emails, you’re asking for a conversation, not a job interview—because the conversation is what will hopefully prove to the hiring manager that you’re worth interviewing. Then, once you have a conversa- tion, the hiring manager will walk away with the impression that you’re a competent, thoughtful human being who’s interested in this sort of work. From there, getting a job interview will feel like an afterthought. As such, don’t talk about jobs at all in the email, and in this particular case, don’t attach your resume; that will feel out of place and transactional. You can and should link to your LinkedIn so they know who you are and have some context.