# PDF Chunk 27

But spend the bulk of the email building common ground and coming up with an interesting reason for the two of you to talk. You’re not going to land a job from one email, so, as with any seemingly insurmountable goal, it’s important to think of your outreach as a series of steps where you put one foot in front of the other. Like in sales, all you need is to get to a conversation. 66 BEYOND CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW ▸ JOB SEARCHES, START TO FINISH View online materials for Beyond Cracking the Coding Interview at bctci.co If your call to action is to set up a time to talk (which it probably should be because it’s speci# c), we recom- mend providing them with a time window. "Would you want to meet up sometime?" puts the burden on the recipient to pose a time, while "Can we talk next Monday at 3pm?" is problematic because, most likely, they aren't free then. Instead, try something like the candidate above did: "Would you be available sometime within the next two weeks for a thirty-minute call? I'm free most weekdays between X and Y and can pretty much do any time on weekends if those are better for you." How long it takes So, how long does the outreach portion take? Below are the rough steps and our estimates for each one. Depending on the length of your list and how hard-to-# nd your targets are, these numbers may change. 2 days: Create a target list 1 day: Write your # rst draft email template 3 days: Go through your target list and # nd personal tidbits about each target (e.g., blog posts) 2 days: Write outreach to the # rst batch 1 week: Wait for results so you can iterate on your outreach 2 days: Write outreach to the second batch 1 week: Wait for results so you can iterate on your outreach 2 days: Write outreach to the third batch 1 week: Wait for results so you can iterate on your outreach Optimistically, the above adds up to 5 weeks. The hard part about this kind of work is that it comes in stops and starts, and it’s non-deterministic; you're somewhat at the mercy of your recipients and their schedule. We’ll talk in Managing Your Job Search (see "How to manage timing for practice vs. outreach" on page 82) about how to time outreach with interview prep; depending on your workload and # nancial situation, you can either run these concurrently or space them out. COLD OUTREACH TEMPLATES Here are two templates you can use for cold outreach. The # rst one gets higher response rates but requires more e$ ort and can't always be used. The second one is weaker but more generic. You can choose what # ts your needs best. We expect both of these templates to be far more e$ ective than throwing your resume into the black hole of online portals. Template: If your target has an online presence This template includes common ground, accomplishments/social proof, and a call to action. It will get you the highest response rates, possibly anywhere from 25 - 50%. However, it can be challenging to use because it requires you to 1) do a deep dive into their online presence and 2) tie what you # nd back to something you’re doing. Sometimes, that tie-in might be tenuous or non-existent (in which case, maybe skip it). Copy/paste this template at bctci.co/outreach-what-to-say-2. Hi {First Name}, I’ve read your work on {some details about their writing}, and I {insert your thoughts on the work}. {If you can make the connection between their work and yours, talk about something similar you’ve been working on.} CHAPTER 7 ▸ GETTING IN THE DOOR 67 {If you cannot, ask them a speci# c, thoughtful question about your work. Don’t worry about making it “the perfect question” like you might when you attend a talk and want to sound smart. Any earnest question will do. You don’t have to use this as a chance to show o$ !} {Finally, close with a sentence or two about you, if you have some social proof or impressive accomplish- ments you can share.} Would you be up for a quick chat this week or next? Best, {Your name} {Insert 1-2 useful links about you. If you have a personal site, that’s great. If not, a LinkedIn will do.} Template: If your target only has a LinkedIn pro" le The reality is that you won’t always have enough information about your target to # nd common ground. In this case, you’ll lead with accomplishments/social proof and a strong call to action. We expect this template will get you response rates anywhere from 5 - 25%, depending on the strength of your achievements and pedigree. Copy/paste this template at bctci.co/outreach-what-to-say-3. Hi {First Name}, {List 2 things about you. They can be impressive accomplishments of yours or social proof.} I’m really interested in the work you’re doing at {Company}. {If you know what team they’re on and are interested in that speci# c team or are familiar with that team’s accomplishments, great! If not, just write a few earnest sentences about why the company is interesting to you.} Would you be up for a quick chat this week or next? Best, {Your name} {Insert 1-2 useful links about you. If you have a personal site, that’s great. If not, a LinkedIn will do.} Keep your note short. The intent here is to make your target believe you’re worth paying attention to, rather than them doing the easy thing: deleting your email. Regardless of which template you use, just like you have to manage your psychology when you prepare for technical interviews, you have to manage your mindset when doing outreach like this. You have to: •Mentally prepare yourself for the slog of writing personalized emails and doing the requisite research. • Get used to rejection. If you do write good emails